length about on uh one step beyond the
show that usually occupies roughly this
time slot
um the it really just through pure
serendipity has
has dovetailed very nicely with what's
going on in the national scene one of
the
the outcroppings and of course at this
point one of the one of the the angles
that's most
being most uh hushed up about the uh
iran slash contra affair
is the involvement of a the contras in
running drugs to support their
quote revolutionary effort unquote and
um
in besides the contrast the american
intelligence establishment and military
establishments
themselves being involved in the dealing
of drugs
and the drugs for weapons uh for
political power
circle that goes uh all the way through
north and south america as well as a lot
of other places of course but
for our purposes tonight and our
purposes in the uh culture scandal
primarily we're interested in the north
south and central american links
so this is extremely timely we talked
several weeks ago about the fact that
the carry commission among others the
senator john kerry of massachusetts are
apparently hard at work uh trying to
break the
um the facade of the contra cocaine
dealing scam
again a particularly interesting thing
to know about at the time when we're
being hammered with a quote just say no
mentality we're being
told that if we were good citizens we
wouldn't mind submitting to uh your
your analysis and things of this nature
to protect our jobs our livelihoods
just recently the uh the scheme has gone
through for federal employees it's
currently being held up in court but
the federal employees union is not
objecting on moral grounds they're
objecting on very specific grounds about
the efficacy of the tests and things of
that nature so
it's very important all citizens to
realize on one hand while the government
with one hand is holding the bottle
underneath
uh underneath you or before you on the
other hand
the government also seems to be dealing
smack and cocaine right and left and
it's uh
very important to understand how this
developed and what purpose it serves in
today's political milieu
now the first of our broadcasts in radio
freight that is to say
the first of our archive shows
specifically about this subject
we documented how the u.s intelligence
services the cia in particular
gave rise and considerable measure to
the international heroin trade in the
post-world war ii era
by employing many of its primary
elements such as the
sicilian cosinostra the uh union course
of
the the organized crime syndicate of
corsica and marseille
in an anti-communist capacity and the
further alliance between the u.s
national security establishment
and various elements of the kuomintang
which had been using
the opium traffic to finance reaction
political reaction in asia for quite
some time the dovetailing of those
organizations
in many ways led to the booming
of the post-world war ii heroin trade in
our second broadcast we documented the
close interrelationship between the
international arms trade
our intelligence services and the
international drug trade
in the last broadcast on the subject we
began going into the effect we did cover
among other things the use of elements
of the
federal narcotics prevention force to in
fact
selectively enforce who is going to be
trafficking in the uh
major narcotics areas specifically
heroin we took a look at how the
dea and a special white house
ant a special white house assassination
team to be used supposedly to clean up
the international
drug trade was in fact used to
muscle the corsicans out of the trade in
favor of a number of organized crime
language organized crime syndicates
primarily mafia in this country which
were very close to richard nixon
we also took a look during the course of
that last broadcast
at the dovetailing and also to a certain
extent in the
radio free america number 25 at the
dovetailing of many of these
uh international drug smuggling
syndicates with not only our own
intelligence system
but also with right-wing terror in
particular cia and
u.s national security
establishment-sponsored terror in latin
america
that's where we're going to be picking
up again this evening the broadcast this
evening could
very appropriately be titled as the the
subtitle would
it could be titled with the subtitle of
a book which we're going to rely on and
considerable measure on this broadcast
as we have in others
the book is called the great heroin coup
subtitled drugs
intelligence and international fascism
was authored by freelance danish
journalist henrik
kruger k-r-u-g-e-r with a forward by
peter dale scott
published in softcover by the south end
press and copyrighted
1980. and uh the broadcast this evening
which will rely on considerable measure
on the great heroin coup could very well
be titled drugs intelligence and
international fascism in fact probably a
dab for that's exactly what it'll be
titled
and what we're going to be talking about
this evening is the triad of the u.s
national security establishment the cia
in particular
the narcotics trafficking elements that
we've spoken of in the past
and right-wing terror in particular
right-wing terror in latin america all
right starting out with uh
tonight's rather as dave dave said
rather extensive uh selections from the
uh great heroin coup by heinrich krueger
meyer lansky the syndicates financial
wizard and its chairman from around 1947
began building his cuban empire in the
early forties
when free elections chased his close
friend and dictator fulgencio batista
from office in 1944
lansky also left the island entrusting
his empire to the trophicante family
headed by santo senior
lansky and batista settled in hollywood
florida just north of miami
before long lansky was running an
illegal casino empire on the coast
and in 1947 he eliminated bugsy siegel
and moved into las vegas
all the while lansky expanded the
narcotics trade founded by lucky luciano
the older mafia dons deemed the trade
taboo
so lansky's wing of the syndicate
cornered the market with trafficante's
eldest son
santo jr overseeing the heroin traffic
when florida's illegal casinos were shut
down in 1950
lansky promoted batista's return to
power in cuba
the drive bore fruit in nineteen fifty
two with trafficante
with tropicante seniors death in 1954
santo jr became
the became lansky's right-hand man and
manager of his cuban interests
until then he had managed the salsuci
casino a base for running havana's
tourist trade and keeping tabs on heroin
shipments from marseille to new york
via florida and cuba trafficante jr has
proven more talented than his father
extraordinarily intelligent and
energetic he has handled the most acute
crises with detached calm
luciano characterized him as quote a guy
who always managed to hug the background
but he is rough and reliable
in fact he's one of the few guys in the
whole country that meyer lansky would
never tangle with
in no time trafficante jr ingratiated
himself with dictator batista while
remaining loyal to lansky
who appointed him manager of his own
florida interests in addition to those
in cuba
lansky needed to spend increasing
amounts of time in new york between
travels to las vegas
rome marseille beirut and geneva
many envied lansky's ever increasing
power and wealth among them
murder inc chairman of the board albert
anastasia
in 1957 the latter tried enlisting
tropicante's aid
in removing lansky from the havana scene
it was one of anastasia's last moves
trafficante arranged a quote friendly
meeting in new york sheridan hotel
an hour after trafficante had checked
out anastasia was murdered in the
hotel's barber shop
shaving cream still on his face
according to peter dale scott quote
certain u.s bench business interests
collaborated with a narcotics linked
american mafia in cuba
as they did with similar networks in
china and later in vietnam
for the mafia supplied the necessary
local intelligence cash and muscle
against the threat of communist takeover
unquote
as scott wrote those words in 1973
cuban americans recruited by the cia
were suspected by federal and city
authorities to be quote involved in
everything from narcotics
to extortion rackets and bombings
unquote
the church committee and other senate
and law enforcement reports would
confirm these allegations
again we observe the cuba southeast asia
cia
triangle and it's no secret who managed
the cuban side
there trafficante junior hired the fast
learning natives
while dictator batista's men made the
empire safe
for organized crime often appearing more
loyal to trafficante than to batista
himself
in return the cubans learned the
business
with fidel castro's january 1st 1959
ouster of batista
lansky and tropicante were in trouble
though they were expelled from their
cuban kingdom
nearly a year elapsed before the
syndicate departed and the casinos were
closed
along with trafficante and lansky half a
million cubans left the island in the
years following castro's takeover
some 100 thousand settled in the new
york city area especially manhattan's
washington heights in new jersey's
hudson county
another one hundred thousand headed to
spain others to latin america
and a quarter of a million made their
new home in florida the site of
trafficante's new headquarters
out of the trophicante trained corps of
cuban officers security staffers and
politicians
a cuban mafia emerged under the
mobster's control
it specialized in narcotics first latin
american cocaine
then marseille heroin with his cubans
trophicante also grabbed
control of la bolita the numbers game
that took florida by storm and became a
syndicate gold mine
besides the cubans who comprised the
main wing of his organization
trophicante also worked closely with the
non-italian harlan blackburn mob
a break with mafia tradition but the
core of the tropicante family remained
italian
and the italians also dealt in drugs in
1960 his band benedito
benny the cringe individual indi vi glio
negotiated the opening of a narcotics
route with jacques la merica
the representative of corsican boss
joseph orsini
benedetto and his brothers romano arnold
charles and frederick
eventually ran trafficante's
montreal-bound smuggling network
and were later joined by the notorious
new york wholesaler luis
cirillo trafficante settled in tampa
but continued to run some of his
activities from jimmy hoffa's teamster
local 320 in miami trafficante and david
yaris of sam giancana's chicago mob were
instrumental in founding local 320
which according to the mcclellan
hearings was a front for syndicate
narcotics activities
after losing his havana paradise
farsighted meyer lansky used
used straw men to buy up much of grand
bahama island
and erected a new gambling center around
the city of nassau
but though lansky and tropicante each
each survived in style
neither they nor the cuban exiles
relinquished hope of a return to cuba
moreover they were not alone in dreaming
of overthrowing castro
the cia in particular let its
imagination run wild to this end
its covert operations expert general
edward lansdale
seriously planned to send a submarine to
the shore outside havana where it would
create an
inferno of light at the same time cuba
based agents would warn the religious
natives of the second coming of christ
and the savior's distaste for fidel
castro however
elimination by illumination unquote was
shelled in favor of less fantastic
suggestions before castro's
assassination
the latter brought together the cia
cuban exiles and the syndicate in the
person of santo trafacante
continuing with henrik krueger is the
great heroin coup
in 1960 the cia asked its contract agent
robert
mayhew to contact the mobster john
rosselli
roscelli introduced mayhew to
trafficante and sam giancana
the chicago capo and the strange
bedfellows arranged an attempt on the
life
of castro the agency had previously
stationed an agent on cuba
who was to flash the green light when
assassination opportunities arose
he was frank angelo fiorini a one-time
smuggler of weapons
to castro's revolutionary army to whom
castro had entrusted the liquidation of
the gambling casinos
though the later through the later
assignment fiorini had made the
acquaintance of trafficante
in february 1961 trafficante and roselli
met at miami's fontainebleau hotel
there mayhew gave the hoods untraceable
poison capsules for delivery to a cuban
exile connected with the trophicante mob
other cubans were to smuggle them to the
island and poison castro
but the attempt failed trafficante
engineered more
attempts including one in september 1962
and his organization
organization also provided cubans for
the bay of pigs invasion
never before had there existed a more
remarkable fanatical group of
conspirators than that assembled to
create
finance and train the bay of pigs
invasion force
the top cia figures were lansdale
protege napoleon valeriano
the mysterious frank bender and e howard
hunt
who was himself involved in at least one
of the attempts on fidel castro's life
they were supported by a small army of
cia operatives from four of its miami
cover firms
by the way we should just mention the
frank fiorini mentioned earlier is frank
sturgis later known as watergate fame
and also a a close working companion of
e howard hunt and many other operations
runner up to hunt for the most
intriguing cia conspirator award
is bender a german refugee whose true
identity remains a matter of speculation
some contend that he had been an agent
of the west german galen espionage
network under the name drekker
d-r-e-c-h-e-r others contend it was
thraller d-r-o-l-l-e-r
the former security chief for dominican
republic dictator rafael trujillo
claims that bender was in fact one fritz
spend
or they spell it here s-w-e-n-t svend
a galen collaborator and leader of
ex-nazis in peru
prior to the bay of pigs invasion svend
was allegedly the cia's man in the
dominican republic
as don fredericko there he purportedly
planned the invasion along with mobster
frank costello and ex-cuban dictator
batista
okay before we get back to let me just
run back over that name before we finish
up this section
okay this man is going to be very
important in our broadcast tonight
fritz or freddie spend or schvend it's
either spell last name either spelled
s-w-e-n-d
or s-c-h-w-e-n-d fritz or
freddy spend also known as don frederico
a galen collaborator and a leader of the
x
nazis in peru he's going to be loom very
important in our broadcast tonight among
other things he was involved in
was the rat line using the proceeds the
profit
the profits from the counterfeiting
operation operation bernhard the ss
operation
to finance the rat line to get nazis out
of europe also the vatican and the cia
i mean the vatican and military
intelligence helped out with that one so
freddie spend
uh presumably uh also aka
rather aka frank bender one of the
planners of the bay of pigs operation
we went into fred frederick schmidt his
association with the cia the ratline and
klaus barbie
in radio free america number 19 a third
of our programs about the vatican
politics the p2 lodge
and the assassination of pope john paul
ii
the invasion's moral and financial
supporters included many
leading china lobbyists most important
was the multi-millionaire behind claire
chennault's flying tigers
william pauley p-a-w-l-e-y
paulie had been involved in the cia's
1954 overthrow of guatemala's
democratically elected arbenz regime
like lansky and trafficante paulie had a
big
had had a big stake in cuba prior to
castro's takeover he had owned the
havana bus system and sugar refineries
he met with president eisenhower several
times in 1959
to persuade the president to assist
cuban exiles in overthrowing castro
paulie then helped the cia recruit
anti-castro cubans it should be
mentioned a couple of other key players
in the 1954 guatemalan coup that
overthrew the arbenz regime
uh not only the aforementioned e howard
hunt but
one of the pilots involved in training
people for the 1954
coup in guatemala was a man by the name
of david ferry
who according to the house select
committee on assassinations was the
the the first man that should be looked
at in reopening an investigation into a
conspiracy john f kennedy assassination
uh david ferry of course not being
around to be looked at in the flesh
after a mysterious accident uh took his
life
but at one of them one of the most
important and strange people in american
political history
also involved in that 1954 guatemalan
operation and the the contact here not
only between the mafia and the cia but
then the cia and the
anti-castro cubans is going to form a
thread not only running through all our
drug stuff tonight but it runs directly
from guatemala
to cuba to the kennedy assassination to
watergate and right on up into the
contra scam today
and also through the other
assassinations as well we took a look at
a fellow named jack youngblood
his cooperation with the frank fiorini
aka frank sturgis
and in turn jack youngblood's probable
subsequent involvement in the
assassination of martin luther king
continuing now with henry krueger's
account of the triad of the cia
right-wing terror
and organized crime involving the
narcotics traffic and eventually as
we're going to look at this evening
a series of right-wing terrorist
operations in latin america
the key cube in exile of conspirators in
the bay of pigs operation and these
ensuing attacks on cuba and castro
included manuel artime
orlando bosch bosch is an important
character we're going to come back to
him
felipe de diego and rolando martinez the
first a close friend of howard hunts
the last two future watergate burglars
the name of bosch
b-o-s-c-h was to become synonymous with
terrorism
distinguishing the non-criminal element
among the bay of pig's anti-castro
cubans is no easy matter
since so many emerged from trophicon
today's cuban mafia
according to agents of the bnd that was
the
bureau of narcotics and dangerous drugs
a predecessor of the dea
beginning again according to agents of
the bnd
nearly 10 percent of the 1500 man force
had been
or eventually were arrested for
narcotics violations
its recruiters included syndicate
gangsters like richard kane
the former chicago policeman who became
a lieutenant for sam giancana
the dominican republic a focal point in
the invasion scheme
also became a transit point for
trafficante's narcotics traffic
furthermore the cia according to agents
of the bnd
helped organize the drug route by
providing ids and speed boats to former
batista officers in the dominican
republic
in charge of narcotics shipments to
florida it is of paramount importance to
note the close cia cooperation with
trafficante's cuban mafia
whose overriding source of income was
the smuggling of drugs
one of trafficante's personal cia
contacts for the bay of pigs was frank
fiorini castro's liquidator of mob
casinos who now preferred the name
frank sturgis in late 1960 sturgis ran
the miami-based
international anti-communist brigade
iacb
said to be financed by the syndicate
according to richard watley
w-h-a-t-t-l-e-y a brigade member hired
for the invasion quote
trafficante would order sturgis to move
his men and he'd do it
our ultimate conclusion was that
trafficante was our backer
he was our money man unquote another
detail from sturgis's past is especially
interesting in light of frank bender's
alleged ties to the galen organization
for a period in the early 50s sturgis
was involved in espionage activities in
berlin
serving as a courier between various
nations intelligence agencies
and was thereby inevitably in contact
with the galen network
the bay of pigs invasion was of course a
fiasco
but that hardly stopped the cia the
syndicate or their cuban exile troops
wheels were soon turning on new
assassination attempts under cia agent
william harvey
who again collaborated with the
underworld within months
the miami cia station jm wave was in
full was again in full swing
it sponsored a series of hit and run
attacks on strategic cuban targets that
spanned three years
and involved greater manpower and
expenditures than the bay of pigs
invasion itself
continuing to head the g the jm wave
station
the cia chose one of its up-and-coming
agents the 34 year old
theodore shackley who came direct from
berlin
his closest cuban exile associates were
joaquin sanjanis and rolando
watergate burglary martinez some 300
agents and four to six
thousand cuban exile operatives took
part in the actions of jm
wave as later revealed one of its last
operations was closed down because one
of its aircraft was caught smuggling
narcotics
into the united states okay now what pa
special attention the part coming up
because theodore shackley not only
involved in several
things we talked about uh came up in our
assassination attempt on the pope series
but of course he is now one of the key
players
in the current contra slash iran scam he
is also one of the major members of the
triple wilson team which has come back
into focus in a big way during the iran
contra gates
scam uh edwin wilson himself was a pay
master for the bay of pigs
we also looked at theodore shaklee in
radio free america number 12 where we
analyzed what we referred to
as the cuban frey corps basically an
underground extension of the military
put
together by jm wave and apparently
involved in the assassination of
president kennedy
and uh we're we're going to be repeating
in this broadcast certain sections from
that program and
we're taking a look in particular now at
the organized crime narcotic smuggling
elements of the cuban frey corps
continuing theodore shackley is another
contender for the most intriguing cia
conspirator award
after years of collaboration with
trafficante organization cubans
he and part of his miami staff were
transferred to laos
where he joined lucian conan c-o-n-e-i-n
there they helped organize the cia's
secret mayo tribesmen
army the second such army drummed up by
shaklee
that was up to its ears in the drug
traffic
vientiane where shaklee was the station
chief became the new center of the
heroin trade for those of you don't know
of course vientiane is the capital of
laos
later he ran the station in saigon where
the traffic flowed under the
profiteering administration of premier
nyan cow ki when the agency prepared its
coop
a coup and when the agency prepared its
coup against the chilean president
salvador allende
shaklee was his chief of covert
operations in the western hemisphere
when william colby became the director
of the cia in 1973
shaklee took over his job as chief of
covert operations in the far
east eventually he was booted out of the
agency as part of the shake-up ordered
by its current director
stansfield turner by the way one of the
reasons that supposedly and this is all
rather unclear still
one of the reasons of course that he was
supposedly booted out of the agency was
because he was caught in part of the ed
wilson frank turple
weapons shipment scams that of course uh
many people since then dave and myself
included have suggested were not in fact
extra legal at all well
it might have been extra legal but they
were not extra agency they were in fact
part of the agency's policy
and that throwing them out of the agency
never stopped their actual
involvement with uh with agency plans
stansville turner uh i i don't know he
may have thought that that's what he was
doing but
uh in practice he proves to have been
either naive or just plain wrong or a
liar one of the three
anyway continuing now with shaklee and
what happened to shaklee and the jm wave
operation in the jm wave period a great
expansion
in china lobby in china lobby
trafficante cuban exile
cia connections occurred william paulie
financed a mysterious summer
1963 boat raid against cuba in his own
yacht the flying tiger ii
besides paulie himself the crew included
mafioso john martino
who had operated roulette wheels in one
of trafficante's havana casinos
cia code ci agents codenamed rip mike
and ken ubiquitous rolando martinez
and a dozen other cuban exiles led by
eddie bio and eduardo perez
many of whom eventually disappeared
mysteriously
lauren hall loren lauren
hall another former trafficante casino
employee claimed that both his boss
and sam giancana had helped plan the
raid
claire booth loose a queen pin of the
china lobby testified during senate
hearings on the cia that she had
financed an exile gunboat raid on cuba
after jfk had ordered the agency to halt
such
raids now remember we talked about very
briefly about how these threads extend
extend out in every
single direction lauren hall mentioned
here is one of the people who was a
former trafficante casino employee also
has a rather interesting history he's
come up in uh
previous one step beyond radio free
america's specifically in the
aforementioned radio free america number
12 dealing with the cuban frey corps and
its role in the assassination of
president kennedy
and its connections to the aryan nations
uh neo-nazi umbrella group up in
hayden lake idaho uh the
we we talked about lauren hall we talked
about the cuban frey corps and
specifically we talked about lauren
hall's connections
with edgar eugene bradley we talked
about how lauren hall was interviewed by
then reagan legal counselor edwin mies
currently the attorney general of the
united states
and it's interesting too that in
connection with the assassination of
president kennedy
in our last radio free america show we
talked about an organized crime
and a narcotic smuggling group called
the company quote unquote
which appears to quite possibly have had
some intersections
with the company quote unquote namely
the cia
specifically we took a look took a look
at uh allegations
by one of the hitmen used to uh
commanding charles harrelson
uh used to assassinate a federal judge
in texas that said we looked at his
claim to have been one of the hitmen
in the assassination of president
kennedy we also took a look at an
interesting series of connections
connecting charles harrelson with among
others jack ruby
and organized crime figures associated
with santos trafficante
we also by the way dealt with santos
trotta picante in
radio or in guns of november program
number one and we're going to
reprise uh some of the information not
specifically but
some of the organized crime connections
to the kennedy assassination are going
to come into
focus here in just a second the
real key element here though is station
jm wave
which as uh former cia agent ray klein
said
was basically run like a covert
operation abroad although it was based
in the united states jm wave was
basically used to
unite a lot of far right wing elements
and to bring them under the umbrella of
the us national security establishment
it's worth noting here too as we talk
about some of the galen connections and
the galen and world anti-communist
league connections we're going to be
coming into later
that for theodore shaklee went to the
station jm wave
directly from berlin and we know what
was going on there at this period of
time
continuing now with henrik krugers the
great heroin coup
i will not wander deeply into the
quagmire of circumstances surrounding
the murder of president john f kennedy
however it is worth repeating a few
lines from the final report of the house
select committee on assassinations
quote the committee's extensive
investigation led to the conclusion that
the most likely family bosses of
organized crime to have participated in
such a unilateral assassination plan
were carlos marcello and santo
trafficante
unquote of the many connections between
trafficante and dallas
the most important are his association
with jack ruby who visited him in a
havana prison in 1959
his statement to cuban exile financier
jose aleman that kennedy quote
is going to be hit unquote and his close
association with fellow mafoc
fellow mafia capo carlos marcello
the cuban exiles drug racketeers and the
cia
had no shortage of anti-kennedy motives
which were all the more intensified as
the three forces gradually welded
together
the anti-cuba actions continued until
well into
continued well into 1965 at which time a
crucial three-year turnabout for the
lansky syndicate began
its money had been invested in the
unsuccessful attempt at toppling castro
and in its new casino complex in nassau
which was threatened by local
anti-gambling forces
so when southeast asia began emerging as
a new heroin export center
lansky sent his financial expert john
pullman to check out the
opportunities for investment close on
his heels went frank
ferci furci the son of a trafficante
lieutenant
from 1968 on trafficante's cubans were
in effective control of the traffic in
heroin and cocaine throughout the united
states
the florida capo's only gang land
partner of significance was the catrone
family in montreal
trafficante carried out his business in
a cool and collected manner
never out of line with the national
syndicate he enjoyed relative anonymity
while other
less prominent gangsters wrote their
names in history with blood
his organization was so airtight that
when narcotics investigators finally
realized how big a fish he was
they had to admit he was untouchable the
bnd
tried nabbing him in its 1969-70
operation eagle
then the most extensive action ever
directed against a single
narcotics network the bureau arrested
over 120 traffickers wholesalers and
pushers but made no real dent
within days well-trained cubans moved
into the vacated slots
to the bnd surprise a very large number
of those arrested in operation eagle
were cia trained veterans of the bay of
pigs
and operation 40. among them were
juan cesar estoy r-e-s-t-o-y
a former cuban senator under batista
alan eric
rudd marrero last name r-u-d-d hyphen
m-a-r-r-e-r-o a pilot and mario
escandar their fates were most unusual
eskandar and restoi alleged leaders of
the narcotics network were arrested in
june 1970
but fled from miami city jail in august
eskandar turned himself in but was
released soon afterward when it was
established that attorney general
john mitchell had neglected to sign the
authorization
for the wiretap that incriminated
eskandar
he returned to narcotics and was
arrested in 1978 for kidnapping
a crime punishable by life but for which
he got only six
months as this work went to press
the fbi was investigating eskandar's
relationship with the dade county miami
police force
juan restore on the other hand turned to
blackmail
he threatened to expose a close friend
of president nixon's as a narcotics
trafficker
if not given his freedom and three
hundred and fifty thousand dollars
restoi was shot and killed by narcotics
agents
as was rude marrero
in late 1970 in the wake of operation
eagle bay of pigs veteran guillermo
hernandez kartaya
set up the world finance corporation wfc
a large company alleged to be a conduit
for traffic anti-investment investments
and for the income from his narcotics
activities
dooney perez alamo a cia trained
explosives expert involved with several
cuban exile terrorist groups
was a building manager for the wfc
juan romano roman ach a close
trafficante associate was w was a wfc
bank director
as hank messick put it hank messick by
the way is a writer who wrote a very
good book called of grass and snow and a
lot of the stuff that henrik krueger is
talking about here came up originally in
that book
also a very good book called lansky
detailing meyer lansky and
among other things lansky's close
association with richard nixon
in our last radio free america show we
talked about the friend we read a
chapter from the great heroine who
called the friends of richard nixon
which documented in rather compelling
fashion the massive intersection between
the nixon presidency
well in fact the nixon organization
throughout the course of richard nixon's
political career
and many of the organized crime and
national security elements which are
coming into focus in the present
discussion
here's hank messick talking about uh the
the chain of uh
the chain of connection here the chain
of personal uh
uh friendship or or business
relationship hank messick says quote
eskandar of course
was a friend of hernandez kartaya who
was a friend of dick fincher
who was a friend of bibi rebozo who was
a friend of richard nixon
who once told john dean he could get a
million dollars in cash
unquote in 1968 trafficante himself went
on an extended business trip to the far
east
beginning in hong kong where he had
located his emissary frank forzi
after a slow 1965-66 start forsee had
made a had made great headway
through his own meridem limited he had
cornered the market on saigon's night
spots catering to gis
he even ran officer and soldier mess
halls and he had set up a chain of
heroin labs in hong kong
to serve the gi market
from hong kong trafficante journeyed to
saigon
registering at the continental palace
hotel
owned by the corsican franchini family
his last stop was singapore where he
contacted a branch of the splintered
chinese mafia several doors had to be
opened to gain access to the opium
treasure
the first led to the cia controlled
taiwan regime
the second to the golden triangles
kuomintang chinese and laotian mayo
tribesmen
the latter door had already been opened
by the cia
so by the way had the former as we
looked at in radio free america number
24.
continuing now with kruger's account
still another led to the triads chinese
gangster organizations in hong kong
trafficante opened that door with the
help of fuji furci who gave him access
to southeast asia's overseas chinese
there was no way around the nationalist
chinese suppliers and middlemen
the world had long been told that the
narcotics came from red china
but the facts belod that propaganda
claim
trafficante liked what he saw in his
southeast asian tour
with enough trained chemists his mob
could be supplied with heroin at a
fraction of what it was then paying out
to the corsicans
but first the smuggling networks had to
be worked out and the corsicans had to
be eliminated
so santo tropicante began his war
against the corsicans his major foe
auguste
ricor in paraguay wasn't about to roll
over and die
ricor got hold of his own hong kong
connection
g s i k h o also known as
limpy ho a major chinese nationalist
heroin smuggler
well connected to the taiwan regime
after records emissaries had traveled
twice in 1970 to japan where they met
with mr ho
heroin shipments began going to paraguay
via among other transit points
chile when in 1972 record was extra
extradited to the us
limpy ho tried establishing his own
smuggling route to the u.s via vancouver
but that failed when two of his
lieutenants sammy cho and chang yu
ching were arrested in the u.s with 50
pounds of pure heroin
by early 1970 southeast asian produced
heroin was ready to be tested on gi
guinea pigs
meyer lansky facing charges of business
illegalities
turned over control to trafficante and
fled to israel
on july 4th lansky narcotics associates
reportedly made their investment plans
for southeast asia
at a 12-day meeting with representatives
of several mafia families at the hotel
soleil in palermo sicily
weeks later the corsican mafia
contemplated counter moves in a meeting
at
philippe francini suite in saigon's
continental palace hotel
turkish opium production was already
waning and could no longer be relied
upon
unrest in the middle east was
destabilizing the production of morphine
base
the corsicans had to do something to
regain control over their longtime
southeast asian domain
a task made all but impossible by the u
s presence
but the corrosion still had large stocks
of morphine their marseille labs
and a smoothly functioning smuggling
network trafficante and company could
agree that if the corsicans were to be
neutralized
it had to be done totally and
effectively
that was a job for president nixon and
his white house staff
the bnd white house death squad and
the central intelligence agency now we
looked
in our last broadcast at what henrik
kruger calls the great heroin coup
and we're going to take a look at that
here in just a second
okay before we do that since this seems
like a nice place to break and all of
you out there with 90 minute tapes or
whatever can turn them over here
we're going to take a short break for a
few minutes get listen to a little music
give you a chance to let some of that
preparatory material soak in as we come
back as dave said we're going to talk
about the coup
itself and the changeover and the direct
profiting thereby of the american
intelligence establishment
and begin to thread together some of the
connections uh that will make so much
sense
when you start uh reading the news again
tomorrow in the morning if you're not
aware of if you're not familiar with
this stuff already so we'll be back
in just a couple of minutes after taking
a break don't go away
and we will return in a few minutes with
more of
i'm having trouble talking tonight with
more of radio free america right here on
[Music]
kfjc
and thus we are returned this is niptuck
with dave emery in the studios and
radio free america continuing and uh
we've just been hearing uh
uh the opening segment of the broadcast
uh again
a large part of the most of the first
part of the broadcast actually large
part of the broadcast entirely
is from heinrich krueger's the great
heroin coup wonderful book south in
press 1980 and paperback
if you can't find a copy get it and read
it and
carry it around with you and make other
people read it it's really a fine book
and if you can't find a copy
we will have by the time this broadcast
is finished put
more than a third of the book on tape so
even if you can't dig up a copy
peruse these tapes at considerable
length and detail and you'll have an
awful lot of the good material
under your belt now we talked at the
beginning of the broadcast and
in the course of putting this together
um about two main things well first of
all the the thing the the specific
subject matter
from the great heroin coup having to do
with the uh the lansky mobs
uh basically uh taking in hand the cuban
mafia
and with the help of santo trafficante
lansky's lieutenant and now his own man
with lansky's uh
uh passing from the scene uh the the
lansky maw basically took over
uh a large part of the heroin trade and
at the same time because of their
involvement with the cuban mafia and
their involvement with the anti-castro
cubans
came into direct contact with the cia
and the bay pigs operation and as we
talked about there's a threat of traffic
going all the way from world war
ii and uh intelligence operations in
world war
ii starting right actually during the
war and continuing through the end of
the war and getting the nazis out of
europe and into central and south
america
and contacts made there through uh going
on through there
up through the 1954 coup in guatemala
the bay of pigs invasion the dominican
public the dominican public
incursion the assassination of john f
kennedy in 63
robert kennedy in 1968 martin luther
king
watergate and right on up to today with
the whole iran scandal that has
quote unquote rocked the white house but
believe me folks
that ain't nothing as to what is
underneath and which if we're really
lucky some of this may break surface in
the next few months but we will see what
we will see but anyway so there's a very
direct line with what we're talking
about tonight
dating clear back into the 40s some of
the same players are still involved like
theodore shackley
today in the self same iran slash contra
scam
now what we're going to begin what we're
going to be doing right now
is reviewing a chapter which we read in
its entirety
and actually reprising i should say
we're not going to review it we're going
to reprise a chapter which
we had in the last radio free america
broadcast number 26
this details henry kruger's analysis of
the great heroin coup
now in a nutshell the nixon white house
closely a lot as we've just seen
as we looked at in our last broadcast
with the
lansky tropicante heroin smuggling
syndicate
and with the cia of course which in turn
intersects very heavily with the same
aforementioned syndicate
basically they collaborated and a fellow
named lucian conin part of the shaklee
team and the operations group in
southeast asia
put together a group of quote x cia men
unquote
who then proceeded to dispatch many of
the key people in the corsican syndicate
and uh thereby handing the trophicante
mob a corner on the heroin trade for all
practical purposes in this country
in addition as we're going to see and
this is in many ways going to represent
the
uh point of departure for the broadcast
this evening many of these same elements
also appear to have been heavily
involved in the
[Music]
uh bevy of right-wing terrorist
incidents centering largely around
anti-castro cubans
which plagued latin america and other
parts of the world
in the 1970s and also on up in the 1980s
and the title for tonight's broadcast
could be as we said in fact will be
the subtitle of henrik kruger's book
drugs intelligence and international
fascism
the great heroin coup as henry kruger
put it the use of the bnd white house
intelligence squad
to corner the market for the tropicante
mob
is uh going to represent the as i said
the point of departure for our study
of the triad of intelligence
specifically the us national security
establishment the narcotics traffic
and right-wing terror in latin america
and other places
all right continuing with heinrich
krueger writing about the central thesis
of his book
the coup itself this chapter kruger
writes
contains my personal interpretation of
the great heroin coup
errors are possible on any or all points
in as much as the clandestine operations
treated in this book
transpire in a closed world infested
with lies and cover-ups
there will always be loose ends the coup
itself which transferred control over
the heroin gold mine from one part of
the world to another
i regard as a fact of life similarly do
i regard the involvement of elements of
the white house staff
just how high up it went the reader can
decide for him or herself
of the many heretofore mentioned details
in the coup's planning and execution i
find the following
essential one prior to the coup
lansky syndicate narcotics boss santo
trafficante jr had made the necessary
arrangements in southeast asia and
mexico and had started a war with the
corsican mafia
2. trophicante's old partner the cia
had long since assumed control over
southeast asia opium smuggling
following ed lansdale and lucian conan's
defeat of the local branch of the
corsican underworld
three in 1971 when the coup's execution
was seriously underway
cuban exiles a group with which
trafficante enjoyed
enjoyed a unique rapport appeared in the
white house's mysterious narcotics
operation
they were tied especially to coneen and
e howard hunt
four through a succession of
bureaucratic reorganizations the white
house assumed control over narcotics
intelligence
and enforcement five
u.s narcotics officials waged an all-out
war against the corsicans turkey
marseille usa network while a warning of
a serious serious heroin threat
excuse me let me read that one again
number five u.s narcotics officials
waged an all-out war against the
corsicans turkey marseille usa network
while warnings of a serious heroin
threat from southeast asia were all but
dismissed
six when the corsican mafia was
neutralized the narcotics enforcement
apparatus was suddenly reorganized as
the dea
and shortly thereafter heroin began
flowing into the united states from
southeast asia and mexico
seven the cia infiltrated dea
grabbed control of latin america's
political repression apparatus
was accused of protecting major
narcotics dealers and was exposed as an
accomplice to gun running financed with
the profits from the narcotics traffic
eight the white house protected robert
vesco
who appears to be a central figure in
the scheme of heroin smuggling
and gun running we should add two we
talked about robert vesco in a
radio free america number 25 we will be
dealing with many of the vesco
connections to the iran contra scandal
and the drug smuggling and terror
aspects of that same scandal
in a three-part series probably four
hours each that we're going to be doing
in may during the kfjc month of mayhem
continuing with heroin the great heroin
coup by henrikh kruger
in these eight points we find the will
the power
and the motives not for the once
proclaimed victory over the traffickers
but for the dramatic transfer of
underworld power that suddenly became a
reality in 1973
the syndicate was in on it the white
house the cia
and special lobby groups were in on it
too at least indirectly
but we still need to ask who in
particular and why
we will rely on logic and guesswork only
to identify individual accomplices
and their particular contributions and
motives
let us first consider the lansky
syndicate represented by santo
tropicante and his cuban narcotics mafia
in addition to motives he might have
shared with the cia trafficante had many
other reasons to take part in the heroin
coup
first it meant cheaper heroin delivery
first it meant cheaper heroin deliveries
and therefore
greater profits second he wanted the
corsicans out because
behind his and the rest of the
syndicates backs they had begun setting
up their own u s distribution network
finally trafficante's drug mob did not
want to see a repeat of bnd
operation eagle us drug enforcement's
last effective raid against his network
what were the possibilities for
trafficantes playing an active role in
the coup's execution
apart from preparation of the southeast
asia and mexico-based networks
without help from the c i a and powerful
lobbies his chances were slim with their
assistance he could infiltrate the
narcotics nerve center the white house
here we might discuss just who in fact
helped him
if it is true the tropicante bought the
corsicans
let me start again if it is true the
tropicante fought the corsican so
bitterly from 1971 on
how can it be that marcel bouquet
b-o-u-c-a-n
and his shrimp boat were seized in
february 1972
with 425 kilos of pure heroin on route
to trafficante in florida
there is only one explanation which
buchan himself offered in court
that phuket was set up by his american
client
how else can the unprecedented seizure
by french customs following a tip from
the cia be explained
if it was a plot to exhaust the stocks
of the remaining french heroin rings and
thereby cause
panic among the corsicans then it worked
how guilty was richard nixon who
presided over the heroin coup
personally i believe that under strong
pressure he was a more or less willing
tool rather than the force behind it all
pointing to nixon's guilt or his close
association with the cuba lobby
with people connected to lansky and
tropicante and with robert vesco
in addition his dirty tricks department
relied heavily on cuban exiles
the cubans would never have supported
him with dangerous criminal acts
demonstrations donations and votes
if he had really been out to eliminate
their most profitable business
nixon would have been ruining the cuban
mafia and to an extent the syndicate as
well and thereby his friends in florida
he would have been digging his own grave
thus nixon tackled the drug problem as
he did every political problem
he followed the path of least resistance
and that meant ignoring his criminal
allies in florida and southeast asia
while he hounded the corsicans
who had no constituency to death
continuing that nixon might have been
involved in the heroin coup
for his own personal gain is lent
credence by the following quote from dan
mulday's respective book
the hoffa wars published charter books
quote a former nixon aide not privy to
the hague investigation
says that one of his associates in the
white house mentioned to him sometime
quote during the
impeachment summer unquote that someone
high up
maybe white house chief of staff haig
was interested in nixon's quote possible
organized crime involvements
that conversation involved quote a
massive payoff
from those in quote army service club
scandals in vietnam
unquote during 1969 or 70. the aid says
that the service club ripoffs quote
involved the mafia and millions of
dollars and that the main focus of the
interest by quote someone high up in the
white house
was on whether the top mafia guy unquote
who ran
quote all these things in southeast asia
had made payoffs to nixon
the crime figure he says was quote the
one who was apparently known as the
so-called mastermind or architect of the
southeast asian drug trade
who was very powerful and very well
known as a mob leader
according to government narcotics
experts the central figure in the
indochina golden triangle narcotics
traffic
was santos trafficante unquote
in my opinion the central manipulator in
the whole narcotics scheme was the cia
or rather a faction within it it is
erroneous to treat the agency as a
monolith
various lobby groups have their own
agents in the company generating
internal power struggles that reflect
political polarizations external to the
cia
there are doubtless cia factions
wholeheartedly in favor of ending
america's policemen in oppressor roles
and in favor of social democratic rather
than right-wing regimes
equally certain is the fact that one
should take the agency's new
outwardly benign face with a grain of
salt
within the agency there are main
powerful groups promoting continued
support of quote old friends
in latin america and southeast asia the
china
cuba lobby has traditionally been one of
the most influential within the c
i a and there is little reason to
believe that the situation has seriously
changed
finally the agency has laid low of late
as the carter administration has lobbied
for a relaxation of constraints placed
upon it by congress in the wake of the
70s expose of cia horror stories
in addition to or rather behind the
cia's new official policy
there is also an unofficial one it
manifests itself in such matters as the
manipulation of the dea to perform what
previously had been cia dirty work
and in the toleration if not
encouragement of a large apparently
independent army of cuban exile
terrorists
available for action in latin america at
the request of the presiding dictators
the evidence suggests that the forces
behind the unofficial policy were able
to place many of their loyal cia agents
in the dea and in such private
intelligence agency covers as intertel
and wackenhut where they continue their
tasks while letting the agency wash its
hands
intelligence is still gathered by the
cia but some of the dirtiest operations
are now
performed by quote former agents
let's just exaggerate that last point
again because it's a very important one
for what we've been talking about and
it's going on right this very moment
the evidence suggests kruger writes that
the forces behind the unofficial policy
were able to place many of their loyal
cia agents in the dea
and in such private intelligence agency
covers his intertel and whack and hut
where they continue their tasks while
letting the agency wash its hands
intelligence is still gathered by the
cia but some of the dirtiest operations
are now performed by
quote former agents unquote and let's
bear that very strongly in mind in light
of the current iran
uh contra scandal with people like ed
wilson uh currently in jail
uh in texas for doing basically what
other people have also been doing
um all of them working legally for the
agency but with the agency
maintaining the shield of deniability so
again what we're looking at here
are former unquote cia agents working
for the dea
not only here to eliminate the corsican
competition with the nixon
and lansky allied santo tropicante mob
also cia allied
but more importantly or not i shouldn't
say more importantly but also as we're
going to be looking at in the broadcast
using those same organizations basically
the national security establishment was
using those same organizations
to implement right wing terror
throughout the world latin america in
particular
continuing with henrik krueger's account
we cannot of course
discount the possibility that the
unofficial policy is in fact executed by
former agents
who would either been purged from the
agency or left in protest against its
more moderate line
however that implies that a renegade cia
faction now runs an independent secret
service
aided by lobby interests i.e not
intertel but an even more powerful
third force if that is so i can come up
with only one lobby group with the
relevant motives as well as the power to
back them
the world anti-communist league or
whackle
wacko can mobilize cia agents closely
associated with the china
cuba chile lobby especially the large
contingent of former agents of the galen
vlassov organization
the intelligence agency run by hitler's
master spy reinhard galen which became
the bnd
the west german equivalent of the cia e
howard hunt was clearly the china cuba
latin america lobby's man
that he is also tied to wacko as
suggested by the fact that william f
buckley
hunt's close friend for 20 years and the
godfather of his children
was one of wacko's top u.s supporters
also connected to the same lobby groups
are lucian conin
and the state department's former
intelligence chief reyes klein
who continues to be a frequent guest at
the taiwan wacko stronghold
hunt and konin were the vital forces
behind the white house's great heroin
coup
hunt secured the cuban exiles their
necessary footing
and he got his friends bernard barker
and manuel artime to set up hit teams to
kidnap
and murder latin american narcotics
traffickers
according to frank sturgis those
traffickers included members of august
record and christian david's grupo
francais hunt persuaded egel crow to
bring cia agents into the white house
narcotics apparatus
he told crowe that he knew quote key cia
officers who could be temporarily
detached from the agency and employed by
the new liaison group
it was hunt who recommended lucian
coneem to head the group
finally it was intelligence reports from
the cia and conan's group which made
white house narcotics actions focus
almost exclusively on the corsicans
coneen's close friend mitch robel iii
told journalist jim hogan he quote
found it difficult to believe that a
lifelong spy of conan's stature could
ever really leave the cia
accustomed to the use of other
government agencies as cia covers
were well quite naturally held open the
possibility that conine's dea job
was no more than an exercise in sheep
dipping the backgrounds and identities
of the dirty dozen
all of whom were cia veterans unquote
but a desire to help its old friends in
southeast asia and latin america was not
the cia's only motive for promoting
their heroin coup
the golists in france including their
loyal adherents in intelligence agency
s-d-e-c-e and their dirty tricksters in
sac
were in the de gaulle era the cia's arch
enemies as well as rivals for control of
the world heroin trade
one can well imagine the cia joining
forces with george pompidou
and other pro-us forces in france in
crushing the old gallest intelligence
network
in 1973 with the corsicans finally
pushed out of the picture
the white house reorganized the
narcotics effort to form the dea
almost immediately heroin began flowing
to the u.s from new sources of supply
journalist ron rosenbaum cites the
following statement by a u.s customs
official quote
bnd and customs are finally getting
somewhere they break up the french
connection
they're getting big conspiracy cases
suddenly they
the white house step in and there's this
big shake up and by the time people get
back to work the mexican connection is
set up
protected and doing big business what's
that say to you
unquote he might have added that the
southeast asian connection was also
protected and doing big business
the emergence of the dea was the next to
last phase of the heroin coup
hunt and konin cia agents moved into the
dea intelligence operations
konin locating 12 latino cia agents in
his special operations group
the dirty dozen was officially created
to combat cuban and latin american
narcotic smugglers
allegedly following the assassination
approach conceived in the darkest
corners of the white house
it must have been a gag konin's forces
were apparently directed for the most
part against small time
independents who had competed with the
big time traffickers in on the heroin
coup
the biggest cuban network santo
trafficantes
went untouched miami's 1974-75 murder
wave in little havana
might even have been might even have
been connected to the activities of
konin's cubans
the victims had opposed orlando bosch's
drive for solidarity and terrorism
a drive which as suggested by writer
hogan that's jim hogan author of spooks
etc
a drive which as suggested by writer
hogan might well have enjoyed the
support of trafficante and robert vesco
of the latter two certainly the first
and quite possibly the second as well
were central figures in the heroin coup
that brings us to the last the political
phase of the heroin coup
which began with the dea's 1974 takeover
the cia's latin american torture and
repression apparatus
and ended with a 1976 creation of kuru
c-o-r-u bosh's terrorist mercenary army
quote ended is however the incorrect
word since the brutalities financed by
the heroin coup continue
the dea or that part of it penetrated by
the c i a
protects the major narcotics dealers the
latter in turn support
financially and through gun running
anti-communist paramilitary groups which
work hand in hand with latin american
police and military forces
whose death squads and torturers are
supervised by agents of the dea
can read that last part again because
this describes exactly what is turning
up about the contra connection
the dea or that part of it penetrated by
the cia
protects the major narcotics dealers the
latter
in turn support financially and through
gun running
anti-communist paramilitary groups which
work hand in hand with latin american
police and military forces
whose death squads and torturers are
supervised by agents of the dea
the infiltration of the dea and the
variety of political assignments for its
agents
have caused such violent splits within
the bureau that one can speak of two
wings which fight one another one wing
carries out guns for drugs and
protection programs
the other tries desperately to combat
the drug traffic carried out or
protected by the first
among the expressions of this bitter
internal strife apparently
are the cecilia falcone and werbel cases
and the dismissal of dea director
bartels
for suspected corruption
recently the use of drug profits to
finance right-wing terrorism has been
placed in a new perspective by
revelations of cuban exile teamwork with
european and latin american fascists
and the economic support of wacko for
the same anti-communist groups
and that brings us to the final link in
the chain of drugs
intelligence and fascism and by the way
as we mentioned this book was written in
about events largely happening between
and 1979 but indeed as we keep pointing
out uh
as we point out many times tonight these
are the exact same events that are going
on now it's
it's almost the same team uh it
certainly shackley clines uh
frank turple at all are all the same
people members of the bosch organization
anti-castro cubans
uh veterans of brigade 2506 and it's
worth noting too that in the next
section of the great heroin coup that
we're going to be talking about a
section that had a chapter i should say
that crew recalls the miami conspiracy
the uh many of the anti-castro cubans
and cia related groups that are
performing many of the acts we're going
to be talking about that at the time
they were doing it
george bush was director of the cia he
now of course is vice president but his
name has been cropping up in a big way
although it has been submerged from the
public spotlight to a considerable
extent not to mix a metaphor
but george bush is one of the main names
to think about here we're going to be
talking about george bush
in again the three four hour programs
that we're going to be doing in may
on the iran contra scandal we'll be
reprising
certain features of the material we're
putting up here and
we'll be focusing on george bush and
many of the narcotic smuggling
connections to this whole scam
in may okay um as dave mentioned this is
uh we're going to go on now and we're
going to continue and with
kruger's final link in the conspiracy um
and specifically we're going to talk
about among other things the miami
office and again mentioning george bush
don't forget george bush has long
sojourned down there with the drug
task force which uh frank turple a man
who as we've said before whose veracity
is questionable but whose insider
information is not
uh frank turple suggested that what
george bush was doing was continuing to
see helping to continue the cia's
past habit of using the dea to inject
cia agents directly into the latin
american latin american drug and gun
politics
okay now again we're going to be dealing
with a chapter of the great heroin coup
the
concluding chapter for before the post
script this called the miami conspiracy
early in 1980 alan pringle head of the
dea's miami office told an associated
press reporter that miami banks
constitute quote
the wall street unquote of the drug
dealers
to the reader of this book that should
come as no surprise
nor should patrice chair-offs claim to
me that miami was the main station of
the fascist front organization world
service
yet the significance of miami in the
netherworld of international fascism
remains one of america's better kept
secrets
in june of 1976 alvaye de vratea
v-a-t-h-a-i-r-e
the financial director for mirage jet
manufacturer marcel dasseau
spent a week in miami together with
soldier of fortune jean k
of spain's neo-fascist paladin group
while there they had several meetings
with cuban exiles
upon their return to france the two
disappeared with over 1.5 million
dollars in aircraft corporation funds
it was then reported that the money went
to support christian phalanges fighting
in lebanon
but some french observers believe it
financed two great french bank robberies
on the weekend of july 17th and 18th
20 men set out on an expedition through
the sewers of nice to the society
general bank
there they stole upwards of 10 million
dollars
when the robberies mastermind albert
espajari s-p-a-g-g-i-a-r-i was arrested
that october
he fingered la catenia a cover name for
a
cover name for a coalition of spanish
and italian fascists
the paladin group in particular most of
the take went to finance their
operations
a second sewer heist was executed in
august of nineteen seventy six
this time at the susquehanna general
paris branch on il salui
the amount was five million dollars
immediately after the nice heist
spagheri traveled to the us and
contacted the cia
according to a confidential source he
had also been in miami shortly before
the heist the french le point and la la
reported that the agency was compelled
to pass on its information about
spagiari to french authorities
in early 1977 spanish police arrest
spanish police arrested jorge cesarske
of argentina's fascist terror
organization the triple-a
and carlos perez a miami-based cuban
exile in connection with a string of
murders of young spanish leftists
according to the spanish daily el pais
perez and a large number of other cuban
exiles were in spain as part of a newly
created fascist international
continuing in 1976 oas
and agenter press terrorist jean-denis
ranger
spelled r-a-i-n-g-e-a-r-d
was in the united states seeking the
support of such right-wing leaders as
senator strom thurmond of south carolina
for an oas
coup in the azores in the wake of
portugal's left-wing military revolution
the coup if successful would bring a
rightist government and u.s control over
the militarily strategic atlantic
archipelago
according to an fbi investigation of
ranger on 19th of november 1969 the
bureau had sent portuguese police a
questionnaire on his connection to an
oas front
the agenter press the questions
concerned a prior ranger
trip to miami during which he had a
run-in with the law
when asked about rangers troubles the
state department's portugal desk officer
in 1975 william kelly said quote
i would prefer not to address the
question of the french connection
unquote what are european fascists doing
in miami before and after major
operations
why are miami-based cuban exiles
executing contracts on young
spaniards why was the main station of
the cia supported fascist front world
service in miami why did bank robber
spaghiari
contact the cia in the united states
is the center of a huge conspiratorial
milieu whose personality
personnel wind through the bay of pigs
attempts on castro's life
the jfk murder and the great heroin coup
and which is now reaching out with a
vengeance to latin america in europe
to trace the roots of this milieu we
must refer to the immediate aftermath of
world war
ii when the cia began its close
cooperation with adolf hitler's
espionage chief reinhardt galen
and the soviet general andre vlazoff of
russia's secret anti-communist spy
network
vlasof's organization was absorbed into
galen's
which evolved into a european subsidiary
of the cia
us and german agents mingled in berlin
and west germany paving the way for
inroads into u.s intelligence
by forming former nazis ss agents and
russian zorists
bear in mind now the connections of not
only frank sturgis but in particular
theodore shaklee
head of station jm wave to the us
intelligence
operations in europe and get the galen
organization in particular shaklee of
course a key player now in the iran
contra scandal
headquarters of the cia galen vlassof
combine
staffed in the mid 50s by 4 000
full-time agents
were in pulac near munich there galen
sang to the tune of more than one piper
having remained in touch with the old
nazi hierarchy relocated in latin
america
whose coordinator excuse me
whose coordinator otto scorseni was in
spain
scorsani had infiltrated the spanish
intelligence agency dgs
and effectively controlled it
single-handedly
with the onset of the cold war galen's
agents were recruited by the cia for
assignments in the united states latin
america and africa
one agent reportedly was frank bender
allegedly alias fritz schwend
a key figure in the bay of pigs invasion
u.s historian carl oglesby sees the
origin of much of the cia's later
sinister record in the alliances it
forged almost immediately upon its birth
with a galen blast off organization and
through operation underworld
with the lansky crime syndicate quote
everything after this meaning the galen
alliance
on top of operation underworld was
probably just a consequence of this
merger
how can a naive trusting democratic
republic
give it secrets to crime and its
innermost ear to the spirit of central
european fascism
and expect not to see its constitution
polluted
its traditions abused and its
consciousness of the surrounding world
manipulated ultimately
out of all realistic shape continuing
well put moreover it is ironical that
europe's contribution to u.s fascism is
now returning home
and threatening the continent in a
conspiracy supported by u.s economic and
clandestine forces
the forces oglesby speaks of were united
during and after the bay of pigs affair
and their bedfellows were big
businessmen with their own private
interests
the merger was toasted in miami the bay
of pigs invasion itself was not the most
important phase in the development
that was cia stationed jm wave and its
operation 40
the agency's secret war on cuba from the
summer of 1961 until the end of 1965
four years during which a truly
conspiratorial powerhouse was forged in
miami
station jm wave was unique in the annals
of the cia as attested to by then deputy
director of intelligence ray s
klein quote it was a real anomaly
it was run as if it were in a foreign
country yet most of our agents were in
the state of florida
people just overlooked the fact that it
was a domestic operation
unquote with the start of its secret war
the new station became the agency's
largest
and the command post for its anti-castro
operations worldwide
its annual budget of fifty to a hundred
million dollars financed the activities
of three hundred permanent employees
most of them case officers who
controlled an additional several
thousand cuban exile operatives
each major cia station had at least one
case officer assigned to cuban
operations
who ultimately reported to miami in
europe all cuban matters were rooted
through the frankfurt station
which in turn reported to jm wave jm
wave covered anything and everything
cuban wherever in the world it might be
cuban representatives were shadowed in
japan and a cuban exile-led commando
unit was sent to helsinki to sabotage
the 1962 international socialist youth
conference
as jm wave was closing down in 1967 the
agency sent another team of saboteurs to
france to contaminate a shipment of
lubricant bound for cuba
with a bacterial substance developed
under its mind control project
mk ultra when poured in oil
it would ruin motors and other machines
i mentioned these scattered incidents
only to elucidate the situation around
the october 1965 murder of the exiled
moroccan opposition leader maybe ben
barca in paris
ben barca must have been jm waves number
two target after fidel castro between
the fall of 1963 and the end of 1965.
i would interrupt and say i think
perhaps uh john kennedy would have been
the number one target
exceeding both ben barca and castro i
think the evidence
pointing that direction is rather
compelling continuing with kruger's
account
castro in 1963 had asked ben barca to
arrange the first try continental
beginning again castro in 1963 had asked
ben barca to arrange the first
tri-continental congress
which was to be held in cuba in january
of 1966
the conference aimed at third world
solidarity against u.s imperialism and
support for castro and cuba
would signal a major setback for jm wave
and the cia's plans for latin america
where all the agencies major operations
in the 1962-6 jm wave era were focused
in 1970 1963 the agency masterminded a
revolution in honduras
another in the dominican republic and a
third in guatemala
in 1964 it assisted in general broncos
military coup in brazil
in 1965 the special forces joined u.s
marines in suppressing civil war in the
dominican republic
and in 1966 the cia aided a vetted
colonel on
gagne's military coup in argentina
cuba was an especially hot number in
1965.
led by jm wave personnel the cia had
planned
a new invasion of the island to follow
one of its attempts to assassinate
castro
the planners included howard hunt and
james mccord
unlike the bay of pigs invasion this
time the agency was offering leadership
in addition to training and financing
however one by-product of the 1965
1965 intervention in the dominican
republic was the aborting of the plan to
invade cuba
the cia station uh the cia
station jm wave in particular must have
been anxious to know
ben barca's plans for the
tri-continental congress and to sabotage
them if possible
and time was running out after ben
marcus september 1965 visit with castro
thus the key to solving the ben barca
murder case appears to lie with three
men
jm wave chief theodore shackley
morocco station chief robert wells and
the head of the cia station in frankfurt
cia contract agent fernand legrow is
also known to have associated with ben
barca in geneva
the same legrow l-e-g-r-o-s who
frequented miami the bahamas and other
spots in the caribbean
when jm wave was dismantled shaklee and
his staff left miami for laos
leaving behind a highly trained army of
six thousand fanatically anti-communist
cubans allied to organize crime and
powerful elements of the u s
far right in 1966 following the
tri-continental congress which proceeded
without ben barca
a counterfront the world anti-communist
league
wacko was chartered in seoul south korea
by hardline reactionaries from the world
over
that same year aginter press sponsored
by wacko
and the intelligence agencies of the
united states france and portugal
was created in lisbon as a cover for oas
terrorists
and other european fascists led by the
frenchman
by led by the frenchman eve gerhart its
aim was the subversion
through espionage sabotage and murder of
all the
of all that the tri-continental congress
had stood for
in that same period cuban exile activist
organizations sprouted all over miami's
little havana they spawned in turn
terrorist subgroups like alpha 66 and
omega 7
whose more notorious leaders guillermo
ignacio novo
orlando bosch and nasario
had all been trained by the c i a
between 1965 and 1971 they staged
sporadic acts of sabotage and
assassinations
with guillermo novo repeatedly arrested
only to be released
each time cubans terrorists among them
were also being paid by santo
trafficante and the syndicate
to help spin their intricate u.s
narcotics web
and they also found the time for dirty
tricks on behalf of richard nixon
and his white house staff however
incidents like operation eagle of 1970
when the bnd the bureau of narcotics and
dangerous drugs
rounded up cuban exile drug traffickers
and found many to have been trained by
the cia
had made the cubans an increasing
embarrassment to the agency
as the seventies began the cia's cubans
had become an angry confused and divided
lot
who felt betrayed by their former
employer
still they experienced a comeback midway
through nineteen seventy one
when the powers that be creep in the
four of course that's the committee to
re-elect the president
again sought their services and in 1973
with the military in power in chile they
found a new employer in the ruthless
chilean secret police
dina the ina other dictators south of
the border
have followed suit continuing
in 1974 on five a reign of terror struck
miami's cuban community as opponents of
orlando bosch were liquidated
the campaign continued well into 1976
during which miami was rocked by over
700 bombings
and that year there was a notable
upsurge in cuban exile activity beyond
the territorial us
on april 6th two cuban fishing boats
were attacked and destroyed and one
fisherman was killed
on april 22nd a bomb exploded at cuba's
lisbon embassy killing two and seriously
wounding several others
in june of 1976 in the dominican
republic town of banao
the cuban action movement the cuban
national liberation front
brigade 2506 f-14
and the cuban nationalist movement
merged as basha's coordination of united
revolutionary organizations
or kuru coru
on july 5th a bomb exploded at the
office of cuba's u.n delegation
on july 9 another went off at kingston
airport in jamaica
in baggage about to be loaded onto a
havana bound cuban flight
the next day there was an explosion at
the bridgetown barbados office of
british west indian airways
which also represented cubana de
aviacion
on july 17 bombs went off in the cuban
airline
office and embassy in bogota colombia
on july 23rd a cuban technician was
killed in marida mexico
trying to stop the abduction of the
cuban attache
on august 9th terrorists kidnapped two
diplomats assigned to the cuban embassy
in buenos aires
on august 18th a bomb exploded at the
cubana de aviacion office in panama
on september 21st chile's former
secretary of state orlando la tallier
and his co-worker ronnie carpent
were killed in washington when a bomb
decimated their car
on october 6th yet another explosion
gutted a cuban airliner off barbados
killing 73. on november 7th
one exploded at the cubana the aviacion
office in madrid
finally on november 9th kidnapper seized
an argentine employee of the buenos
aires cuban embassy
orlando bosch's army of anti-castro
cuban terrorists
was responsible for all these acts when
the cuban airliner went down
bosch himself was arrested in venezuela
but the extremists had not waited until
1976 to take part in international
terrorist operations
in 1975 100 anti-castro cubans joined
european fascists in the army for the
liberation of portugal
elp from neighboring spain the elp
whose core comprised agent press oas
veterans
attempted to overthrow portugal's
progressive military regime
by the way once again the oas here is
not the organization of american states
but the secret army organization the
group of french fascists who attempted
to murder
french president charles de gaulle in
revenge for his having given up
algeria as a french colony continuing
with the account
in 19 the 1975 attempt in rome on the
life of chilean christian democratic
party leader bernardo layton
was a joint action of dina the youth
wing of the italian fascist party msi
and anti-castro cubans the 1976 murder
of la taelyer and moffatt
a dina kuru job was planned in miami
four of the five cubans involved in it
were cia veterans of the bay of pigs
invasion
the leighton attempt and lately air
murder were each coordinated by the
american chilean dina agent
michael townley continuing
the common denominator in peru as well
as international fascista
a combine of anti-communist extremist
organizations chartered at an october
1976 meeting in rome attended by kuru
representatives
appears to have been the cia or at least
a faction thereof
kuru's headquarters are in miami
originally it was sustained by tight
collaboration with the cia
and the chilean junta's secret police
according to the cuban former cia agent
manuel darmas
the cia coordinated dina's acts with
crews dean of course the chilean secret
intelligence agency kuru the cuban exile
group
according to manuel dharmas the cia
coordinated dina's acts with kuruz
and supplied the latter with funds
advisors and explosives
the head of dina's miami-based force was
reportedly eduardo sepulveda
the chilean attache in miami and a top
dog in dina
international is the outgrowth of many
years of planning in madrid by the late
nazi otto scorezani who in the 50s had
worked for the cia
on its role are former ss agents oas
terrorists
hatchet men for portugal's dreaded
secret service p-i-d-e
terrorists from spain fuertenuela
argentine and italian fascists
cuban exiles french gangsters from sac
and former cia agents hardened by terror
campaigns in operation 40
guatemala brazil and argentina
besides kuru international fascista's
militants have at various times numbered
the army for the liberation of portugal
the elp and its agenter press contingent
under eve gerhart
the italian ordnance led by salvatore
francia and pierre luigi conchitelli
spain's guerrillas of christ the king
association antico monista iberica
and allianz anticommunist apostolica aaa
which is not to be confused with the
argentine triple a that is also
represented in international fascista
and the paladin group
ss colonel scorzani was the kingpin of
the paladin mercenary group until his
death in 1975.
dr gerhard hartmut von schubert formerly
of joseph goebbels propaganda ministry
was its operating manager headquartered
in albufeira spain
its actual nerve centers were scorching
scorcene's export import offices and
cover firm
mc located at a madrid address shared
with a front for the spanish
intelligence agency scoe
under colonel eduardo blanco and also an
office of the u s central intelligence
agency
the cozy relationship of spanish
right-wing terrorists with u.s and
spanish intelligence
is further underlined by the scoe's
purchase in the mid-1970s
of were bell's silenced m10 machine
pistols
that's mitch werbel they're talking
about the georgia weapons manufacturer
and paramilitary trainer
the cozy relationship of spanish
right-wing terrorists with u.s and
spanish intelligence is further
underlined by the scoe's purchase in the
mid-seventies
of warbel's silenced m10 machine pistols
prior to which the terrorist weapon had
been unavailable in europe
shortly thereafter the m10 turned up in
the hands of spanish and italian
terrorists
a melange of former oas and sac figures
and west german rightist activities and
mercenaries
paladin joined terrorist actions in
europe africa
latin america and even southeast asia
along with italian fascists paladin is
responsible for the december
17 1973 bombing of rome's fiumicino
airport which claimed 32 lives
on behalf of the spanish government
paladin kidnapped and murdered leaders
of the basque
eta and in 1974 76
engineered some 50 bombings in basque
country
before i continue here with kruger's
account many of these incidents and
we're not going to go into them here
were related in considerable detail in
other radio free america shows notably
radio free america 19
dealing with the uh p2 lodge and its
intersection with many of the same
elements we've talked about here
continuing with kruger's account
paladin's bank rollers included
scorzeny's weapons empire
and libyan head of state moamir qaddafi
the scorsani controlled world armco with
its main offices in paris
was registered in the name of paladin
manager fon schubert
upon the death of scorzeny in 1975 von
schubert moved to argentina
but returned six months later to
reorganize
in the spring of 1976 he raised eyebrows
with a want ad in the international
herald tribune for a pilot
navigator captain three demolitions
experts
two camouflage experts two specialists
in vietnamese and two in chinese
applicants were directed to a pilot in
office in spain
international fascista was a crucial
first step toward fulfilling the dream
not only of scorzeny
but also of his close friend in madrid
exile jose lopez rega
juan peron's grey eminence and prince
giusto valerio borghese
the italian fascist money man who had
been rescued from execution at the hands
of the world war ii italian resistance
by futures cia counterintelligence whiz
james j
angleton they and other nazi and fascist
powers throughout europe and latin
america
envisioned a new world order built on a
fascist iron circle linking buenos aires
santiago
lima the paz brasilia and montevideo
in 1973 their goal seemed near
chile's president allende had been
overthrown peron had regained the
argentine presidency after 17 years of
exile
hugo bonsai was still in control in
bolivia as was alfredo streisner in
paraguay
and other right-wing military regimes
ruled brazil and uruguay
when he returned to argentina perron
brought with him lopez rig
as an advisor the latter wielded would
wield great influence over both the
aging president
and his wife isabelle and import hatchet
men from spain to help the argentine
anti-communist alliance tripled a the
triple a
slaughter the argentine left in 1976
however
fascist plans suffered a setback
isabelle parrone who's had succeeded her
late husband was ousted from office and
lopez orego was chased out of argentina
argentina's contingent of international
terrorists then followed lopez rhaegar
back to spain
and were joined there by several of
their argentine colleagues
among them commissioner morales and
colonel navarra
portugal's revolution and the liberation
of mozambique and angola that followed
further complicated the fascist game
plan however third world terrorist
actions continued
in 1976 a seven-man fascist commando
group dispatched from spain was arrested
in algeria following an act of sabotage
its leader identified himself as aurilio
bertan
in truth he was j s sablonsky a native
philadelphian also known as jay
salby another member of the unit
disclosed that he had contacted it
contacted it in madrid through one geel
maxwell an american working for a real
estate agency run by the former u.s air
force colonel
august waltz woltz continuing
salby was a ringleader of agenter press
and later the elp
together with garan sarak and other
eurofascists he had worked for the cia
in guatemala from 1968 to 71 in the
unprecedented terror
campaign which followed the august 1968
assassination of u.s ambassador gordon
mean
the campaign allegedly set in motion by
maine's successor nathaniel davis was
modeled after vietnam's phoenix program
it afforded an early glimpse at the
teamwork of european fascists with
miami-based cia trained cuban exiles
according to amnesty international some
30 000 people were either killed or
disappeared in guatemala in the decade
beginning in 1962
the worst of it coming in 1970 to 71.
a later released fbi document revealed
that salby and former oas terrorist
ranger ranger mentioned at the start of
this chapter
had been in miami in 1969 on leave from
participating in mass murder in
guatemala
correspondence in 1971 from agenter
press leader sarak to sablonski
is addressed to jay salby seaboard
holding corporation
1451 northeast bayshore miami
ranger also again settled excuse me
ranjir again shuttled between miami and
guatemala in late 73.
as to ambassador davis he moved on to
bigger things in chile
a terrorist contingent which would train
commandos for the chilean fascist party
patriai
libertad whose co-leader was reportedly
davis next door neighbor
followed soon on his heels from
guatemala
after a coup d'etat replaced salvador
allende with augusto pinochet's military
junta
some terrorists moved on to argentina
while others salby among them
rejoined agent or press in portugal
as fascist terror then struck europe
davis became the u.s ambassador in burn
switzerland
by coincidence dina's chief of foreign
operations pedro ewing set an off set up
an office in the same city
the southern european left most vocally
the italians then protested repeatedly
against the presence of davis
who was regarded as a coordinator of the
terror
eventually he was relegated to the happy
hunting ground of the foreign service
the naval war college in newport rhode
island
in 1976 to 77 international fascista
made its presence felt often in europe
west germany's fascist and neo-nazi
groups doubled
after spain and italy though it was in
france that the fascists were most
industrious
with the old standbys from sac assuming
a new role
when 7 000 sac agents were fired in 7273
many joined fascist groups in spain
paladin in particular
paladin's oas contingent let bygones be
bygones
continuing what has made sleuth work
difficult
is international fascists attempts to
camouflage itself as an arm of the left
when general joaquin centeno anaya
bolivia's ambassador
to france was shot down in paris in may
of 1976
a caller to the police claimed that the
che guevara brigade had murdered him to
avenge the 1967 capture of guevara in
bolivia
an eyewitness moreover claimed to have
recognized the assailant as the infamous
left-wing terrorist
carlos however one month later the
nouvelle observator
reported that the assassination had been
planned at madrid's consulata hotel
by bolivian intelligence agents salvedra
and three terrorists from the paladin
group
furthermore inspection of zenteno
anaya's politics revealed his opposition
to bolivian president banzai
an allegiance to ex-president torres
whose murder in argentina followed
shortly after zinpanos
then it was the turn of former chilean
foreign minister orlando lataliere to be
murdered
murdered by chilean and cuban terrorists
in washington
soon after which the establishment u.s
press citing cia and fbi sources
pointed the finger at the chilean left i
would interrupt you that the
cia director at the time was george bush
in connection with these assassinations
it's appropriate here to quote in its
entirety
a recent report entitled latin america
murder incorporated unquote
again quoting a still classified staff
report on questionable foreign
intelligence operations in the united
states
prepared for the senate foreign
relations subcommittee on international
operations
shed some new light on cooperation and
security matters between
argentina bolivia brazil chile
paraguay and uruguay according to the
senate report
which has been leaked to the press in
the united states the joint operation is
known as
condor the senate report mentioned a
phase
three of operation condor which involved
the formation of special teams to carry
out
sanctions unquote including the
assassination of the enemies of its
constituent governments
the best known killing of this type was
the bomb attack on orlando lately in
september of 1976 in washington
condor's role in this emerged during the
testimony of the fbi agent bob shearer
who investigated the case and gave
evidence at the trial of michael townley
he testified to the use of condor as the
channel by which the chilean dina chief
general manuel contreras tried to get
u.s visas for two of the agents involved
an impressive list of murders may now be
laid at the door of operation condor
these include the killings of general
carlos pratz of chile
and juan jose torres of bolivia in
argentina the uruguayan politicians
hector guiterrez ruiz and zelmar
michelini
also in argentina bolivia's general
joaquin zentano anaya and uruguay's
colonel ramon trabal in paris
and the attempted assassination of the
chilean senator bernardo layton
the senate report disclosed that condor
had considered establishing its own
operational base in miami in 1974
but that this was headed off by a cia
protest quote through regular
intelligence channels unquote
in this case the cia informed the
chilean dina of united states
displeasure
and no miami station was opened
according to the senate report
the fbi concluded early in its
investigation of the letelier
assassination
that the murder might have been carried
out as a third phase of operation
condor presumably third phase will now
go into the lexicon of euphemisms
alongside the cias to terminate with
extreme prejudice
the fact that the operation was well
known to the united states at least five
years ago
makes nonsense of its shocked surprise
at the time of orlando la tallier's
death
end quote that was all a direct quota of
the report
continuing the advent of democracy in
spain was fought bitterly by
international fascista
at least 70 lives fell victim to the
struggle within the first half of 1977.
on january 24th fascists armed with
machine pistols stormed
at midtown madrid attorney's office and
opened fire on 12 lawyers who had
defended leftists
six of the lawyers were killed the rest
were seriously wounded
over the next three days right-wing
terrorists murdered four others two of
them students
which led to the arrest of carlos perez
the cuban exile associated with the
argentine
aaa on february 22nd
1977 madrid police discovered a factory
where italian ordinai nuovo fascists had
manufactured handguns
the building had been rented from an
order of nuns by otto scorsani's friend
mariano sanchez covisa
following up their discovery the police
investigated a bank box in the name of
italian fascist kingpin elio masa grandi
in it they found a small fortune in
three gold bars traceable to the 10
million dollar bank robbery masterminded
by oas alumnus
albert spagyari this led to the roundup
of most of spain's italian fascist elite
stefano de la quiere marco pozan
elidore pomar clemente graziani
salvatore francia flavio camp
mario rosa enzo salzioli plus masa
grandi and his wife sandra crichy
spanish authorities however were
pressured by the italians local
protectors and the terrorists were soon
released
many of them headed to argentina and
eventually returned to europe
masa grande and one gatano orlando went
to paraguay
where they were arrested in december
1977 and released within days
on orders from dictator stressner there
they remained
in august 1977 the spanish aaa stole
jewels worth 20 million dollars from the
cathedral at oviedo
the police recovered recovered most of
the jewels when several terrorists were
stopped at the portuguese border
that same month international fascists
italian spanish argentine and cuban
exile terrorist contingents
were represented at a taiwan assembly of
the world anti-communist league
continuing in april of 1978
the parties behind international
fascista formed an umbrella organization
eurodoi or euro right as a response to
euro communism
charter members included giorgio
almeronte's italian fascist party msi
spain's fuerza nueva led by blas pinar
france's foss nouvelle pfn led by jean
dui
tixier belgium's front national
and greece's rasam lamar general
in may almaranti and others represented
eurodoi at the wackle assembly in
washington
on june 27 1978 eurodoi
met in paris and on july 18th its
leaders met in madrid with latin
american observers including ricardo
kuru kuru chai of argentina
its representative at the april 1979
wacko assembly in paraguay was fritz
nuevas pinar
finally in 1979 several gurudwara
members were elected to the first
european parliament
the springboard of this chapter was what
i deem the miami conspiracy
inevitably i am drawn to suspect that
international fascist operations are to
some degree
directed from miami world service the
cover
whose organization rangyara and salby
were in and out of miami
miami cubans joined agentair press
terrorists in guatemala
the nice bank robber albert spaghari was
allegedly in miami before his heist
and was definitely in touch with the cia
in the u.s after it
ten months later money and gold stolen
from the bank were in the safe deposit
box of an italian terrorist leader in
spain
mirage director duvate and paladin and
paladin agent k flew to miami before
their theft of mirage millions and met
there with cuban exiles
100 florida-based cubans joined the
agentaire press elp
army in spain where they became involved
in acts of terrorism
michael townley and other dena agents
were in miami to plan the murder of
orlando la talguire
and townley also engineered an attempt
on bernardo leighton's life in rome
the old jm wave operation is born again
only it is no longer confined to cuba in
the third world
but now encompasses a bitter struggle
against a new enemy euro communism
the hometown of cia fronts like the sea
supply corporation
double check corporation zenith
technical sector
zenith technical enterprises gibraltar
steamship corporation and vanguard
service corporation
and the site of ominous fl fonte blow
hotel meetings between santo tropicante
sam giancana john roselli robert mayhew
william harvey and meyer lansky
remains the birthplace of conspiracy and
to close the circle
let us not forget that gangsters and
former espionage agents among
international fascista and kuru's
minions
were knee-deep in the heroin trade
that's still floating in the quagmire
are extraordinary international agents e
howard hunt and fernando de grow
and that several spagiari gang bank
robbers had been the close associates of
both francois chape
and christian beauceres david whom this
book was at one time
to have been all about well we're going
to take a break here and then we're
going to come back
we're going to uh discuss a little bit
about the very dense and important
chapter we've just been through
and we're going to pick up then
following that discussion with a
discussion of christian bolsters david
and we're going to talk about some of
the august record mob
and an extension of the record mobs
associated well the record mob was
associated with klaus barbie and we're
going to talk about an apparent
extension
of that we're going to talk about klaus
barbie the cocaine coup
in bolivia of 1980 and another uh
a lot of other equally charming events
indeed so don't go away we're going to
take a break and play some music give
you a chance to wiggle your toes and
kick your feet a little bit and then
we're going to be back for more and
uh as dave said we've got another two
hours of information all kinds of stuff
so
dave emery and myself nip tuck will
return in just a few minutes with more
of one step beyond right here one step
beyond with more of radio free america
excuse me
right here on kfjc
[Music]
um
and we return with more radio free
america this is nip tuck
with dave emery in the studios at kfjc
we're going to be here until
approximately 11 o'clock tonight
give or take a few minutes one way or
the other because as dave so aptly put
it we never quite know how these things
are gonna come off
but uh time-wise anyway so uh however we
spent a long session actually we should
probably review some of that last
chapter because that's a lot of
exceedingly complicated stuff having to
do the international foshista
and a veritable uh crossword puzzle of
interlocking uh acronyms there
um the sac the oas crew
dina elp either the whole bunch of them
but essentially the the connect the
strongest connection that uh that needs
to be
made tonight um one is not expected to
know
whether when one says aaa one is talking
about the uh the the spanish
aaa or the argentine triple a but the
point is is the very strong connection
made
early on between the quote legitimate
intelligence services
organized crime the drug traffic and
right-wing
paramilitary well fascist politics and
fascist terrorist action
and that's in fact uh as dave mentioned
drugs intelligence and international
fascism
is in fact the the title and uh the
category of tonight's broadcast
perhaps the most significant uh aspect
of that particular chapter was well
obviously the information is highly
significant but in his conclusion to
that chapter
henrik kruger stated that the old jm
wave station is born again
that uh with perhaps a very
unintentional though
in the year 1987 the book was written in
1980 and
an excellent pawn on the uh ultra right
wing evangelical movement which is going
around
that the old jm wave station headed by
theodore shackley
is indeed born again uh something to
contemplate here in calendar year 1987
is the extent to which the contra supply
operation
uh is not only very similar to station
jm wave and which was basically a
a cia covert operation run from the
united states with
again the same sort of coalescing of
ultra right wing elements uh various
nazi and clan groups
civilian materiel assistants and others
being
basically being taken under the umbrella
of the us national security
establishment
but the incorporation of the nexus
of mafiosi of organized crime
various uh intelligence agencies around
the world primarily the u.s intelligence
agencies
and specific fascist elements combining
to
place the uh operations for right-wing
terror around the world latin america in
particular
under the uh the dea
in for the cia infiltrated dea the
interrelationship here
between the narcotics traffic and the
terrorist or
terrorist elements cited in that chapter
is the key thing we're focusing on here
we're going to be coming back to that
same nexus in our three-part series
which we have scheduled for may and
we'll be giving you the dates later
which is going to deal with the
iran-contra scandal involving many of
the same elements and the same people we
looked at here
the international fascist and
specifically that passage we've read in
a number of other
radio free america broadcasts the
intersection for example of muammar
gaddafi with the paladin group
the right-wing italian elements well
right-wing that's a euphemism the
fascist italian elements such as stefano
de la quiere
uh prince eusto valerio borghese and
some of the others we looked at
jose lopez rega of the argentinian p2 we
looked at them in great detail
in our series about the pope shooting
radio free america's 17
through 21. theodore shaklee a key
player in that situation is
also obviously one of the individuals
who looms large
in this whole complex the uh
the book that we're reading from the
great heroin coup again it came out
as copyrighted 1980 came out right at
the end of that year uh obviously i
think in in calendar year 1987 this
turned out to be rather
unnervingly prophetic the the very same
uh miami conspiracy that we're looking
at basically kruger postulates that
miami
is the nerve center of international
fascism closely allowed with the u.s
national security national security
establishment
uh looms even larger in the wake of the
revelations of the iran contra scandal
and we're going to be looking at those
as i said in great detail
in may in another series now one of the
uh one of the elements in heroin
kruger's analysis here that we're going
to be looking at concerns
christian or cretian beaucers david
he was a corsican gangster employed
first by the sac the
anti-oas group of corsican gangsters
employed by the french government
to resist the attempted fascist coup in
france later
as uh krueger has indicated particularly
after the 1968 uh riots and street
demonstrations in paris
the sac was welcomed back welcomed back
by the
ultra right-wing elements in paris and
they in france i should say
and the sac became part of the
international fascista
we're going to go back to the great
heroin coup now then we're going to take
a look
at the functioning of christian
beauceros david his nickname was bo
sears
we're going to look at his world not
only working with the record mob
gustry core was a corsican gangster a
nazi collaborator who fled to latin
america to avoid prosecution by the
french authorities after the war
he then teamed up with among others
klaus barbie the
ss and gestapo chief of lyon klaus
barbie of course as
we've looked at in the past and has been
widely widely documented in
the popular press as well as any number
of books class barbie
worked as an agent of the galen
organization and we're going to be
taking a look at the
collaboration of klaus barbie august
recore
and christian david not only in the
heroin trade
but also in operating hand in glove with
right wing death squads in particularly
uruguay and brazil and in particular
we're going to take a look at the
looming i should say in the background
of that is of course the cia and the
other u.s intelligence services
following our analysis of henrik
krueger's uh
our our expose there are our reading of
henrik krueger's analysis of the august
record
barbie christian david collaboration
and their role with death squads we're
going to move on to an analysis of klaus
barbie his cocaine operation in bolivia
and the so-called cocaine coup
of 1980 involving the fiancees of death
that we looked at in radio free america
number 19
the group of cocaine mercenaries
basically who operated hand in glove not
only
with the bolivian national security
establishment with but with elements of
our own
and the cocaine trade well is going to
loom large in the final couple of hours
of our broadcast this evening
obviously we will be looking at cocaine
smuggling in its intersection with the
u.s and national security establishment
in our analysis of the iran contra
scandal
okay reading from the great heroin coup
august record and his gang of heroin
merchants were riding high when they
were joined by christian david in the
latter half of the 60s
each year they transported hundreds of
kilos to the huge u.s
market and without the noticeable loss
without the noticeable losses that
narcotics traffickers must normally
contend with
its street value depending on
competition lays somewhere between one
and two billion dollars annually
at the end of world war ii record fled
from france in a death sentence for
collaboration with the gestapo
he wandered for several years in search
of an underworld niche
by the end of the second year three of
his companions in exile had been
murdered
in 1947 record arrived in buenos aires
with the name
lucian de gel some say he had with him
the millions he'd pocketed during the
war
others say he had to start all over
what's certain is
that he opened an exclusive restaurant
in argentina at the close of the fifties
and soon had a chain of restaurants and
motels throughout argentina
paraguay and bolivia each with the name
paris nice
and an eiffel tower prominently out
front the motels evolved into a
high-class brothel chain
and record quietly began trafficking in
narcotics
at the start of the 60s record moved his
headquarters from buenos aires to
assuncion paraguay
there he could feel at home among the
old nazi luminaries who had found safe
haven under president alfredo stressner
recore also gained regained contact with
an old acquaintance
then residing in neighboring bolivia
former gestapo
chief klaus barbie the killer or butcher
of lyon
recore had much in common with barbie
alias klaus
altman inasmuch as the former had
assisted the gestapo at torture
and the rounding up of french jews
since the disclosure of barbie's
whereabouts french and german
authorities alike have vainly sought his
extradition for the murder of hundreds
in 1966 old man recore enlarged his
already immense narcotics network upon
discovering how easily he could smuggle
heroin into the u.s via latin america
for some reason the u.s bureau of
narcotics and dangerous drugs the bnd
largely overlooked the danger from the
south until the 70s
it eventually grew wiser estimating that
50 to 60 percent of the marseille
produced heroin on the u.s market
entered
the latin america which generally meant
by way of record
and company the old man surrounded
himself with hardcore
thugs by 1970 the mob's leaders were
record
sentenced to death in absentia for
treason torture and murder
luciano sachte wanted for the murder of
a belgian policeman
christian david sentenced to death in
absentia
andrei condamine wanted for the murder
of a policeman
jean lunardi wanted for murder francoise
shiap
wanted for two murders and a french
gangster and former sac agent
michelle nicole they also had a network
of henchmen encompassing nearly every
metropolis
in latin america the money poured in
some of it to be reinvested in
restaurants and nightclubs in buenos
aires
sao paulo and caracas but record lost
his grip on the reins
before long david kondamine and sarti
took over reducing the old man to a
figurehead who drank foaming moonshner
brow with
the alta camaraden in one of asuncion's
many german bars
continuing marseille heroine was
transported to paraguay from embarkation
points in barcelona
lisbon and brussels in charge of
transportation were condemine as well as
shiap
who often traveled between his buenos
aires base and barcelona
where his suppliers were the orsini
brothers of the corsican mafia
the heroine was transported by air and
by sea
part of it went via brazil then either
overland to paraguay or directly to the
usa
some of it sailed up the parana river to
asuncion
the greater part of the heroin sent
north arrived aboard small plains known
as maumau's
which generally refueled in panama
before flying onto either florida or
mexico
there they were unloaded and shipment
was continued overland
paraguay had long been one of the great
smuggling centers of the world
with 200 private landing strips
scattered among the haciendas
it was impossible to monitor the
enormous number of private flights
and no one seriously bothered to try
since numerous government officials
pocketed shares of the take
according to jack anderson recorder's
accomplices included some of paraguay's
highest-ranking officers
pastor coronel the intelligence chief
general andres rodriguez leader of an
elite three thousand man force
especially trained by the americans
and general vincente quinones the air
force chief of staff
who was responsible for asuncion airport
and other landing fields
soldiers from an elite corps according
to anderson were stationed to guard the
contraband stores for recore and other
big time smugglers
worse still in the wake of anderson's
sensational revelations came rumors that
paraguayan air force officers
had even flown records heroin to the
united states in military aircraft
unlike recore de david simply didn't
simply rake in the money
he thrived on danger according to u s
narcs
in at least three instances both says
himself transported large quantities of
heroin into the united states
using the pseudonym jean-pierre by which
he was known exclusively among friends
in the recore mob
david david also maintained the
organization's good relations with
police
and spooks in latin america he took on
assignments for argentina's terrorist
organization the argentine
anti-communist alliance or
aaa and probably did the same for
brazil's notorious deaths for brazil's
notorious death squad
grupo francais as records network was
known in latin america
has had found a prize in christian
creation david because of his
connections to
sac and french intelligence through him
there grew new branches in the narcotics
network
including one centered about the felix
leska gang and that the
sac chief jean o'jay or and another
another about joe ate his gang sac
leader on simon pierre
and the swiss banker andre hirsch
okay moving back a little bit to study a
little bit more about
beau ceres himself the murder of police
lieutenant galiber
caused a major sensation in france
despite what seemed to be an all-out
manhunt the wily christian david aided
by friends eluded galibera's colleagues
in the anti-gangster squad in the fetish
club of novi serra
outside lyon beaucers bided his time
a big time bordello and a haunt of the
guerini clan
the club was a frequent rendezvous of
david's friends in sac
reportedly meme guerrini at first
favored delivering his body to the
police
but powerful forces must have intervened
as mafia bosses were persuaded to help
both sayers flee
from france one day in march 1966 a car
picked him up at the fetish club and
drove him to a guarini outpost on the
post on the outskirts of marseille
skipping down
his reputation having preceded him in
latin america david was welcomed into
the record organization with open arms
and soon moved into its highest ranks
also part of both serge's reception
committee were agents of the sdece
and sac his arrival coincided with a
powerful french diplomatic offensive in
latin america
with the u.s wading into a quagmire and
into china
and otherwise preoccupied with the
soviet union de gaulle
and moreso jacques fauca sought to
entrench themselves as deeply in latin
america as they had in africa
de gaulle planned to come on like the
great white father
the third world's only friend but focar
f-o-c-c-a-r-t felt that wouldn't suffice
he moved several of his most trusted men
from africa to latin america
between 1965 and 1968 for example we
find the notorious colonel
roger barbiero as france's ambassador to
uruguay
and dominique ponchardiere its man in
bolivia
if anyone stands for cloaks and daggers
it's these two whose names turn up in a
string of france's most sensitive
espionage scandals
focus men moved where they saw the
greatest openings
supporting right-wing forces in a region
already in the grip of military
dictatorship
barbaro and ponchardiere offered to help
these regimes break the back of
left-wing insurgency
for that they needed men without
scruples men like christian david
on arrival in argentina david met
francois
wanted in france for a pair of murders
shiap
also known as big lips had worked for
the guarini mob
and was on excellent terms with
politicians and right-wing militants in
argentina
he was also a top member of the record
organization
the record network was divided into four
teams
that operated independently out of
separate headquarters
recore himself ran the main team from
asuncion paraguay
and oversaw the entire operation shiap
and michelle nicoli led another team
dominique garcini and luis monsignor are
third
and andre conodo and luciano sarti a
fourth
other important names in the
organization were claude andre
and i'm not going to bother to spell all
the french names because that we're not
even going to go over many of these too
many times
it was murder incorporated in french
nearly all had been sentenced to death
in
france continuing baroni besides
belonging to the felix leska gang
had teamed up on art swindles with the
aforementioned cia agent fernando legro
and with the groves forger emil de ori
is similarly interesting in december of
1968 enrico pasili
a weapon smuggling friend of christian
davids was murdered in rome
almost simultaneously charize
another close associated legross died in
a mysterious auto accident
italian police suspected pasteur in both
killings which were committed while he
was on a
trip back to europe the record network
operated freely south of the border
because its members help repressive
regimes fight the left and smuggle arms
sometimes combining the two profitably
while he was helping in
while he was helping intelligence groups
infiltrate guerrilla movements
chris christian david found new
customers for his weapons the major arms
deals though were with fascist militant
groups in argentina
and chile through connections shop
secured david an argentine passport in
the name of carlos eduardo de vuel
bergere
beauceres then went on secret missions
for french intelligence
his first assignment to infiltrate
douglas bravo's venezuelan urban
revolutionaries led nowhere
in early 1967 bravo was expelled from
the venezuelan communist party and
police smashed his organization
once relocated in the hills bravo was
wary of spies
following the false start in venezuela
both says flew to mexico and met with
two african agents
they handed him a contract to eliminate
african politicians
it's not clear whom he was to murder and
whether or not he succeeded
but he was in africa several months and
murder was a task he rarely muddled
upon returning to latin america he
joined record asuncion before planting
himself in argentina
in late 1967 david elias eduardo del vru
bergere
managed to infiltrate the forza at the
forces argentinas de liberacion the fal
one of the most active guerrilla groups
in stormy argentina from 1967 to 71.
among other actions it kidnapped august
ricorra's close friend in paraguay's
console in argentina
voldemort sanchez relying on his
experience with the instruments of death
david soon became the fal's arms
instructor
and ingratiated himself with its members
in the end he made off with its files
and a cash box containing two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars
while fleeing he allegedly slew an fal
leader and a lookout
he headed with his prize to central
america
eventually the sdece made a deal for the
papers with the argentine government
which led to the arrest of several
gorillas
and the death by torture of one soon
thereafter david went to uruguay where
the french gem french ambassador was
rojay balberro
the same barbaro who four years later
would be associated with the french
connection heroin affair that also
involved beau ceres in may 1968 barbaro
and dominique ponchardiere were
unexpectedly rushed home to paris
to help quell french student unrest
forcing folker to put his plans for
latin america
on hold after 1968 beau ceres was more
or less a freelance agent
while remaining in close touch with the
focar network he also took on
assignments for security police and
political death squads in argentina
uruguay and brazil and thereby
inevitably for the cia
in montevideo he reconnected with his
mistress theresa
who just happened to be a member of the
tupamaros through her beaucerge
infiltrated latin america's best
organized band of gorillas
uruguay's president pacheco areco had
already begun a determined struggle
against the revolutionaries
assisting his police and armed forces
was a squad of cia agents expert at
torture and anti-guerrilla warfare
two of these agents dan a mitrione
m-i-t-r-i-o-n-e
and claude l fry spell like it sounds
were captured by the revolutionaries
mitrione was given the death penalty by
a people's court while fry suffered a
heart attack and was released
beau serge appears at first glance to
have done more for president arako
than the entire conventional cia team
but on this job he probably collaborated
with u.s
intelligence also assisting him was
jacques volckar's full-time man in
uruguay in roger barbaro's absence
jean-baptiste listroni who became
david's goat david's go-between with the
uruguayan government
david must have been quite an actor
since he even fooled the legendary
tupamaros leader raul sendik
after robbing a bank the guerrillas
handed bocerge four hundred thousand
dollars for the purchase of weapons
he then flew off as if to complete the
deal defocara's personal fiefdom and
beehive of the weapons trade
the african nation of gabon
while he was away however the guerrillas
somehow learned not of his escapades in
argentina but of his role in the ben
barca affair
they decided to set a trap for him but
once back in uruguay bocer smelled
trouble and rushed to the security
police who soon arrested 150 gorillas
and the strongest blow they dealt the
revolutionaries
it was a handsome feather in the cap of
president pacheco
for his troubles david was reportedly
given two hundred thousand dollars in
addition to the four hundred thousand of
which he had relieved the partisans
plus an uruguayan diplomatic passport in
the name of eduard davre
the passport made david the heir
apparent of august record
with it he traveled freely to the u.s
and europe controlling and expanding the
international narcotics network
there's also a somewhat unbelievable
story about david's departure from
uruguay
in the transit hall of montevideo
airport a stewardess reportedly brought
him a package
suspecting a bomb bowser had the
stewardess opening herself
she screamed when she did inside was the
head of theresa
a goodbye gift from the tupamaros now
the point to make here of course is that
as we looked at the conclusion of this
book the strong intersection between
fascist politics and the narcotics
traffic and in turn
david's work with the u.s intelligence
apparatus in
uruguay is worth noting here now what
we're going to begin looking at next
and we're going to take a look at a
section from parapolitics issue number
six put out by jonathan marshall we'll
get to that in a second
is what appears to have been at least to
a certain extent an extension
of the record mob taken over by
creighton david
and uh remember now that uh recore
worked closely with class barbie
only this time the main product that
they're moving is cocaine
and not heroin and we're going to take a
very close look at the so-called cocaine
coup
in brazil in 1980 in just a second
now again bear in mind that uh creighton
david a french gangster who at one time
and apparently for quite a while worked
in an official capacity but for the
french government
worked hand-in-glove with various
reactionary regimes in latin america
and also apparently with the us
intelligence apparat
we're returning now to the uh
a publication that we've used a number
of times in the past this is
parapolitics
parapolitics is a newsletter distributed
by jonathan marshall
to investigative reporters and political
researchers marshall is currently the
editorial page editor
of the oakland tribune formally
functioning in the same capacity for the
san jose mercury news
in an essay in parapolitics number six
from march 30 the issue closing march
thirty first
nineteen eighty two jonathan marshall
has authored a an essay called the
business
of terrorism and we're gonna talk a
little bit about uh the
david recore mob and the collaboration
with klaus barbie
and the apparent extension of at least
elements of that particular mob into the
cocaine trade and in turn
we're going to take a look at the
cocaine trades uh close involvement with
u.s intelligence
in the uh the 1980 cocaine coup reading
now from the business of
the business of terrorism by jonathan
marshall and parapolitics number six
the french connection of which lebanon
was such an important part
was shifted to latin america in the
1960s under the guiding eye of french
and italian fascists and criminals
including as mentioned above tommaso
buchetta
through latin america drugs could be
moved with the help of corrupt
governments and military administrations
in the united states
evading tight customs controls or ports
in the northeastern united states
are the evading tight customs controls
on ports in the northeastern united
states
the ring was ostensibly headed by august
recore a former nazi collaborator who
relocated after world war ii to paraguay
where he was assisted by nazi escapee
klaus barbie
the butcher of leon who made his home in
bolivia
one of rekorra's closest closest
assistants was [ __ ] david
a former leader of the gallus strong
arms squad service taxi
cevic that battled the oas in algeria
and france in the early 1960s
sac recruited heavily from the
underworld and david was one of those
gangsters whose activities was
sanctioned by the french state
as long as he didn't overstep the bounds
but he was forced to flee a latin
america when
having been implicated in the political
murder of moroccan leftist matey ben
barca
and in the shooting of a french police
lieutenant his political allies could no
longer protect him
in latin america however he kept in
touch with his friends in the focar
network
and on behalf of local military
intelligence agencies infiltrated the
uruguayan trooper morals gorillas
and in and fingered their leadership
touring around the continent on an
argentine passport he tried the same
tactic in argentina
brazil and venezuela but david's real
livelihood was crime in particular
trafficking in heroin
he was joined at the apex of the record
network by a former oas henchman
francois shiap
who like david now put politics aside
david and shiap were arrested in 1972
after the united states brought enormous
pressure to bear on latin regimes that
harbored the traffickers
interrupting of course we took a look at
the hypocrisy and that pressure
that was the great heroin coup analyzed
by henrik krueger
and of course the the relationship
between the people involved in that the
nixon white house
the us intelligence apparat and the
resulting
right-wing terror triad uh which kruger
calls the miami conspiracy we've just
covered throughout the bulk of the
broadcast
continuing with marshall's account david
was eventually extradited from brazil to
the not to the united states where he
remains in prison
shiop however was mysteriously freed
from prison by argentine authorities
just in time for him to take part in the
military intelligences and a military
intelligence sponsored massacre of
left-wing parents
at azizia airport in june of 1973.
shiat became an enforcer for the
right-wing paradise minister of social
welfare jose lopez rega a p2 member
who ironically used u.s military aid to
entrench himself as argentina's
prominent preeminent
narcotics trafficker one of lopez rega's
closest allies and the organizer of the
aziza massacre
colonel jorge osinde went on to become
argentina's ambassador to paraguay
a nerve center of the french connection
the french connection with its terrorist
ties lives on in bolivia
home of the bridegrooms of death a
cocaine syndicate headed by former
gestapo boss klaus altman
aka barbie altman wanted for war crimes
in france as a close associate of
bolivian colonel luis arte gomez
who became interior minister following
the notorious cocaine coup that the two
men helped organize in nineteen eighty
i'd say artse controls a fleet of
private planes that he uses to move
cocaine
he also commands a force of several
hundred agents in the special security
service
who divide their time between running
drugs and torturing political prisoners
according to the new york times quote
reportedly aiding the colonel is a team
of more than 20 foreign mercenaries from
france
italy belgium argentina and other
countries
some of them say they are neo-nazis last
year they helped establish and train the
special security service
which became the vanguard in storming
government ministries and labor unions
in last year's coup in which more than
40 people died
that from the new york times of august
august 3rd 1981 that's why it talks
about last year
one special security service trainer is
former ss commandant albert
von inglom who served 20 years on a
nuremberg conviction
other german nazis from altman's
contingent eight of them all together
were arrested by brazilian police for
bringing six pounds of cocaine across
the border
also in their possession were a pair of
machine guns
and a pile of nazi propaganda so
the extension of at least elements of
the record mob notably klaus barbie aka
klaus altman
is worth noting here we're going to take
a look at the cocaine coup
uh touched upon here by jonathan
marshall in this essay
we're going to take a look at that coup
the role of stefano dela kiya in the
bridegrooms of death
connections between that coup and the
world anti-communist league
mentioned by henrik kruger and the last
thing we're going to take a look at
is the role of u.s intelligence in that
coup
okay we're going to read now from a book
called the nazi legacy
the subtitle is klaus barbie and the
international
fascist connection it's copyright 1984
by holt reinhardt and winston it's
written by
three authors magnus linklater
l-i-n-k-l-a-t-e-r isabelle hilton
and neil asherson a-s-h-e-r-s-o-n
the nazi legacy i'm going to read a
little bit more about
klaus barbie and how the the bolivian
coca fascista
connection was set up
dividing his time between santa cruz his
elegant house in cochabamba and his
apartment in the edificio jasmine
on call in la paz
barbie shared his views about the coup
with a small group of neo-fascists whom
he met regularly
to them he would explain that their plan
should be seen in a far
broader context than just bolivia
it was after all part of the battle
against communism he said
a battle which should have been fought
40 years earlier in europe but was now
more important than ever
for the fiancees of death in santa cruz
the preparations for the coup
according to a former member of the gang
came with a visit from barbie
quote one day klaus altman came to see
us that of course was barbie's pseudonym
when he was first in latin america
one day klaus altman came to see us
quote the moment has come
he said we have to overthrow this
government before bolivia becomes
another cuba
with the other foreign comrades we are
getting together a security service
you have to cooperate but first you must
be tested
we began to follow the union
demonstrations to keep files on the
opposition
to threaten and punish subversives we
worked well
we even had a private prison for the
torture which we left however to the
bolivians
their political adviser was barbie's
lawyer adolfo ustares
who used to address the gang with the
words quote we must kill
all the communists to which the group's
commander would reply
quote count on us we are ready for
everything
in la paz barbie kept in touch with
developments through a new friend emilio
carbone
c-a-r-b-o-n-e an italian neo-fascist in
his thirties
who had left italy rather suddenly in
nineteen seventy
after period in spain carbone had
arrived in bolivia where he started
publication of a fascist magazine which
he also sent back to his old contacts in
europe
his connections with senior military
officers in bolivia
were impressively close
through the young italian barbie began
to learn more about the neo-fascist
groups in europe
their links with south america and their
somewhat tortuous ideology
the two would meet regularly in the cafe
la paz
together with other contacts both men
had realized that if the planned coup
was to succeed
they would need expert help our say
gomez had expressed the view that they
needed someone ruthless
quote bolivians are not hard enough he
said
in late 1979 carboni was able to
announce that help was on its way
quote two italian friends he said are in
central america
they will be here in a few days within a
week they had both arrived in la paz
a young man calling himself mario bononi
and a somewhat older man very small in
stature with a pointed goatee beard
who said he was alfredo modulo
bonone it a mirror it emerged was a 25
year old neo-fascist whose name real
name was pierre luigi palliati
and modulo was stefano de la chie
continuing with the nazi legacy there
was little doubt that the two italians
were a valuable addition to the team
both knew latin america well and they
knew the right people
deli kia's contacts dated back to spain
and his work with lopez rega of
argentina's
aaa death squads from 1976 he had helped
dina the chilean secret police to locate
and
neutralize unquote chilean exiles and
here too had gone into the news agency
unquote business
with a dina financed outfit called aip
along similar lines to grassharrak's
agenter press
by mid 1977 he was so well established
inside the chilean security apparatus
that he claims to have persuaded many
dina officers to wear the ardene nuovo
insignia the double-headed axe and its
ss inspired motto
our honor is our loyalty
in 1978 however de la kiya had to move
somewhat rapidly to argentina
a scandal had broken in chile following
the murder in washington of orlando
lately former ambassador of president
allende to chile
of chile it emerged that the murder was
the work of american-born dina agent
michael townley a close friend of
delicey
carried out on the orders of manuel
contreras head of dina and delicia's
protector
as contreras position weakened delicey i
slipped quietly out of the country
he took with him the 25 year old italian
neo-fascist peluiji payai
who like him had fled from italy after a
right-wing terrorist attack
argentina was a natural choice as their
next base
the military dictatorship which had
seized power in 1976
offered de la quie in particular similar
opportunities to those he had enjoyed in
chile
and he already had friends in buenos
aires but even so
it was not easy to gain a foothold
when they first arrived and arrived in
february of 1978 said one right-wing
activist from that time they didn't know
many people
they asked me to help them make contacts
in military intelligence unquote
a few introductions followed but
progress was slow
this was frustrating for de la kiya had
ambitious plans
he dreamed of making buenos aires a
neo-fascist center with its military
regime a model to be applied throughout
latin america
at the beginning of 1979 he began to
travel visiting other right-wing regimes
on a journey which took him first to
paraguay
then to the troubled region of central
america already a potential gold mine
for those offering
quote security services unquote
it is here that the threads of de la
cia's past begin to be drawn together
with those of the violent present
for there is strong evidence that the
lessons he had learned in spain and
italy and which had been reinforced in
chile
were to be applied practically in
central america
the next the next step would be bolivia
in el salvador the aspiring nationalist
politician major roberto da boissan
listened enthusiastically to delekiah's
account of the men and expertise he
could provide
he invited him to contribute his views
on how the salvadorian army should cope
with guerrillas and subversives
and de la kiya responded with a paper
written in his inimitable leaden style
the document signed with delekiah's code
name alpha what was included in a june
1980 analysis of the salvadorian
military from their private files of a
group working closely with dabusan
it is clear on reading it that
delekiah's views had not changed
the battle should still he argued be
fought outside
the normal conventions and they quote
from the document the military
operations of the armed forces now are
more effective and they
are attacking the neurological points of
the enemy destroying important sections
of their organizational structure
finally the salvadorian army is making
battle outside the framework
of conventional war
continuing delicious returned
full of enthusiasm from el salvador to
buenos aires where he gradually
convinced the argentine military that he
really did have something to offer
his most obvious asset was his ability
through his european network
to monitor the activities of exiled
opponents of the argentine regime in
spain
france and italy he and paleo began
traveling to europe in pursuit of their
duties
they held argentine passports and were
paid by the argentine military in
dollars
soon they were performing a similar
service in nicaragua and el salvador
transmitting information back to buenos
aires on left-wing exiles and passing on
arms equipment
and finally men for the salvador
salvadorean death squads
deliciae was an efficient recruiter of
european labor
he telephoned his unemployed friends in
france germany italy and spain and
negotiated trial contracts which rarely
paid less than fifteen hundred dollars a
month
towards the end of 1979 argentina's
military leaders began to look anxiously
at the deteriorating political situation
across their northern border in bolivia
argentina was just emerging from its
devastating internal quote dirty war in
which up to 30 000 people had
disappeared and the military leadership
was deeply concerned about bolivia's
trend to the left
a trend which could easily cross the
border and refuel resistance
to the military in argentina
an argentine intelligence officer major
hugo
raul miore pereira whom della kiya had
gotten to know well during his time in
central america
was appointed by the military high
command in buenos aires
to maintain close liaison with right
wing bolivian officers
it was in miori's fashionable apartment
on the avenue liberator
libratador libertador excuse me i'll try
that again
it was in miyori's fashionable apartment
on the avenue libertadore in buenos
aires that de la kiya first came into
contact with a series of prominent
bolivians
including general hugo bonsai as a
result of those meetings in late 1979
de la quie traveling in the disguise of
the argentine officers modulo and bononi
moved discreetly to bolivia via central
america
they had come to offer their support in
mounting the military coup
which klaus barbie and his friends were
by now actively preparing
the arrival of de la kiya in bolivia
marked the beginning of a new
and ruthless phase in the run-up to the
coup
de la cai was now 44 his enthusiasm for
the cause
undimmed by as many setbacks he saw the
bolivian crisis as an essential part of
a right-wing movement which he hoped
would roll back communism and left-wing
governments everywhere in south america
quoting de la quie i decided that i had
to contribute to the creation of an
international revolutionary movement he
told a spanish magazine interviewer in
early 1983
i was thinking then as i think now that
it is not possible to carry forward
revolutionary action in one country
without a global vision of political
events and a common strategy
so when the proposal of a national
revolution presented itself in bolivia
we were there collaborating with our
bolivian comrades
we would need we were neither torturers
nor drug terrorists
but political militants i would
interject
take that last uh statement with a
monstrous dose of salt
also bear in mind this global vision of
quote revolution
that he talks about with kruger's
analysis of the international fascista
of which dela cai was a key part
despite this house and continuing here
with the nazi legacy
despite this high sounding language dela
kiya was there to do an essentially
practical job
archie gomez placed him in department 2
to work alongside
klaus barbie barbie was 67
hardened and cynical for him the coup
would be primarily an act of
self-preservation
though he could argue the case against
communism with the best of them
but he admired delicious inflexible
approach it struck a deep cord in his
old ss heart
it was not the first time the two men
had met alvaro de castro barbie's shadow
and bodyguard recalled a trip de la caie
made to bolivia in 1978.
quote he came to bolivia from argentina
with paul yai he said
i met them with some others to discuss
the possibility of publishing a magazine
in la paz
the two italians held long discussions
with barbie and de castro
the bond then struck between them was to
last quote there were good people
said to castro and disingenuously we
like them
unquote what barbie was able to offer to
delicate eye when he arrived in november
of 1979 was unrivaled local knowledge
he could explain the intricacies of
bolivian politics the strengths
and weaknesses of the security apparatus
and the importance of the drug mafia
de la chia was impressed to find that
the kind of paramilitary squad he had
always used himself was already in
existence
organized by barbie he set about
organizing his own to supplement it
the hit squad assembled by delice eye in
bolivia like the fiancees of death
was an unsavory collection of
neo-fascist mercenaries
in delhi case however they were mostly
argentines and italians
he called them with a characteristic
touch of melodrama the phoenix
commando the reality scarcely matched
the hyperbole
among the civilians mario mingola was a
fairly standard case
an argentine who had tried at one time
or another every religion
from training for the catholic
priesthood to joining the south
korean-based cult of the moonies
interspersed with clandestine operations
in central america
mingola had finally opted for
neo-fascism in bolivia
by the way it's rather interesting that
uh mingola uh
that this particular man they're talking
about happen to have joined the moonies
as we will talk about a little later
mingola had finally opted for
neo-fascism in bolivia
quote we identified 16 international
terrorists in bolivia at this time
unquote said a us intelligence official
most of them had been brought in via
argentina
the presence of these bizarre foreigners
did not go entirely unnoticed in la paz
jose fajardo an eccentric uruguayan
bookseller living in the bolivian
capital
was sufficiently alarmed to attempt to
infiltrate the group around klaus barbie
in order to find out more about them
he then made strenuous efforts to warn
both the bolivian press and trade unions
about them
quote but they thought it was all too
fantastic
he said and they never listened i tried
to get messages to
europe through visiting tourists but it
was like putting messages in a bottle
fajardo described the relationship
between the very different members of
the group
barbie was the moral authority a sort of
oracle and ideological director
he gave them advice and contacts and he
helped them reorganize their false
documents
he was always careful not to be in the
forefront of the action
carbone was important for the
international connections he was a
coward though
they once gave him a ride rifle to hold
and he could hardly stop trembling
de la kiya was the other ideological
guide and a great organizer
he was a poor physical specimen but very
brave his lieutenant palii was a real
man of action
bolivia according to fajardo was a
attracted to the group for several
reasons
quote they had tremendous contempt for
the bolivians themselves for racial
reasons
they regarded them as something akin to
the missing link and they certainly
didn't think they could build a race of
superman here
but it gave them a refuge when they were
on the run
they could count on the corruption of
the military officers
it was easy to get papers and easy to
influence the fascists in the military
in a bizarre echo of che guevara's
analysis they also saw bolivia as a
strategic location
if they did not stop communism there
they argued it would spread throughout
the continent
the argentine military dictatorship
provided essential backup
supplementing the bolivian credentials
supplied by barbie with the uh with
argentine army papers
they also increased their military
mission in the paws to 70
including in their number several
notorious veterans of argentina's dirty
war
as bolivia limped from crisis to crisis
in the early months of nineteen eighty
delici i and barbie worked intensively
together
over the next few months the two men
holding regular discussions with garcia
meza
artsy gomez and their military cronies
put together the essential ingredients
for a military coup that would serve
their common purpose
the restoration of a dictatorship in the
fascist mold
a new element of terror was proposed by
dela cai as part of the build up
it was one he alert in argentina key
opposition figures must be picked off
early
they should either be murdered or
kidnapped always using unmarked vehicles
to avoid the hostility against a new
regime that actions like this might
attract
the work should be done not by uniformed
soldiers but by unofficial unquote
elements
hooded paramilitary gangs the bolivians
were not entirely convinced about this
there were diverging views about the
form and degree of repression both
before and after the coup said a former
associate of dela ki eye
del aqui i argued that the enemy had to
be completely beheaded
which meant the elimination of hernandez
zwazo juan le kin
the trade union leader and the rest of
the leaders of the political opposition
the bolivians on the whole hope for a
less drastic solution
de la quiere seems to have won at least
some of the arguments
in february 1980 the office of the
left-wing newspaper aki
a persistent critic of the involvement
of prominent bolivians in the cocaine
trade was destroyed by a bomb
in march its editor luis espinal a
jesuit priest
was kidnapped and tortured to death by a
paramilitary squad
acting it emerged later under orders
from department 2.
as rumors of coup preparation circulated
there were conciliatory gestures from
the commander-in-chief of the armed
forces general
reyes towards the powerful trade union
organization cob
they signed a pact to respect each other
unquote and to back the elections
planned for june but by may
there were ominous signs of dissent
garcia meza
who had been promoted head of the army
described the pact unquote with cob
as no more than a dialogue unquote by
june
the atmosphere was electric on june 2nd
celeswazo's vice presidential candidate
narrowly escaped death when the aircraft
on which he was traveling was sabotaged
four leaders of the coalition group he
represented died in the crash
the plane it transpired had been hired
from a company
owned by rsa gomez we're going to take a
break at this point and uh
play a little more music then we're
going to come back read you about the
coup d'etat itself and then we're going
to cover the united states role
in that coup indeed so we will be back
in just a few minutes with more of radio
free america with dave emery and myself
nip tuck
don't go away we've got it coming up for
you right here on kfjc
[Applause]
[Music]
and with that we return this is niptuck
with dave emory in the studios at kfjc
and for the last home stretch here of
radio free america for this evening
drugs
intelligence and international fascism
we're going to go back to the book
the nazi legacy by magnus linklater
isabel hilton and neil asterson asherson
and uh you'll bear with me i'm having
trouble reading i'm having trouble
talking tonight folks but
uh we'll try and make this as clear as
possible and we'll uh explicate some of
this stuff near the end of the broadcast
and and we've already id'd
so everything else is copacetic and we
can move on from here we've been talking
about the bolivian coup d'etat which is
highly significant for a variety of
reasons but not
least for which it's one of the purest
examples of the
the drug nazis uh in action
available for scrutiny and of course
klaus barbie is supposedly may actually
finally go to trial this spring i will
believe it when i see it
but uh so this is also very current news
since it was the fall of the
coca-fascist regime
in bolivia that we're reading about its
inception right now
it was the fall of that regime that uh
that allowed
klaus barbie to be in a situation where
he could finally be extradited to france
to stand crime
stand trial for his crimes as the
butcher of lyon when he was the uh
gestapo commander
anyway reading from the nazi legacy
they moved on july 17 1980
at dawn that day bolivians woke to the
announcement of a military rising in
trinidad
the capital of the beni where mutinying
soldiers were calling for colonel luis
arse gomez to quote lead a national
revolution
the 189th coup in bolivia's history had
begun
as the news came through an emergency
meeting was called in la paz at the
headquarters of the trade union
organization cob
key members of the committee for the
defense of democracy assembled
along with trade union and humans right
human rights leaders among them marcelo
quiroga santa cruz a primary target for
the coup leaders
what happened next was a grim
demonstration of de la cia's strategy
he was later to boast that the bloody
events at the cob headquarters that day
were not only supervised by him
but that he took part himself in the
killing
according to ministry of the interior
sources the plans for the raid and the
attacks on radio stations that day had
been devised by a small group consisting
of barbie
de la chiai and palliai with the
bolivian officer guido buena benavides
acting as liaison those plans had been
directed from department two of the army
but de la cai was later to boast that he
took a personal hand in the cob
raid at turn 10 30 a.m
news reached the cob meeting that the
main square in santa cruz had been taken
by the rebels
and that military units in cochabamba
had joined the coup
quiroga quickly proposed a general
strike a proposition unanimously
accepted
as the strike call was being drafted for
immediate release to the radio stations
the sound of automatic fire outside
interrupted the debate
inside the cob building it was at first
assumed that the firing was meant simply
to intimidate
but this coup was different as the
windows began to shatter the members
realized they were under attack
noel vasquez an official of the cob
remembers what happened then
quote we all hit the floor moments later
they burst in
hooded civilians with automatic weapons
they were very ferocious
they ordered us outside they took the
leaders out first
and as we were going downstairs one of
them ordered marcelo
kiroga to stay behind he refused but
they pushed the others out in front
and fired a burst of automatic fire at
him they killed another comrade too
i saw his body in the angle of the
stairs with marcelo lying on top of him
i lifted marcelo's head and he was still
alive but bleeding heavily
later we heard he was dead unquote
what happened next bears all the
characteristics of the brutal tactics de
la chia had been proposing to his
bolivian hosts
the survivors of the cob raid were taken
to the headquarters of the joint chiefs
of staff where they were beaten and
tortured
the women among them were repeatedly
raped from army headquarters the group
was taken to the offices of the secret
police and a week of torture and beating
followed
quote we spent days in a cement cell
without food
living in our own excrement said vasquez
we were tortured by hooded
paramilitaries with italian or argentine
accents
as the cob leadership was led captive
away
steps were taken to crush the strike an
armed paramilitary squad launched a
heavy attack on a catholic radio station
radio fires
and silenced it over the next 24 hours
about 20 trade union leaders were to die
while the leaders of the peasants union
simon reyes were so brutally tortured
that he never walked again
the strike call was effective only in
the mines where some miners held out for
two weeks
but with its leaders rounded up or
killed resistance crumbled
in santa cruz things went equally
smoothly
barbie's lawyer ustares organized
feeblecorn's gang
now impressively renamed the special
commando group to which he had been
recently presented to which he had
recently presented an armored car
quote the day of the coup was not very
laborious he said a former member of the
group
our job was supposed to be to take the
revolutionaries positions with the
assault car
we were destined for important positions
not very bloody ones and we didn't have
to use the assault car unquote
gustares armored car did however feature
that day
the group took a commemorative
photograph in front of it dressed in
battle fatigues and holding automatic
weapons
strung across the car was a banner
reading long live free bolivia
and prominent in the black road dressed
in battle fatigues an ammunition belt
strapped around his waist and submachine
gun in his hand
was eustares himself july 17th had gone
well for the ringleaders of the coup
by the end of the day in the past the
presidential palace and the university
were under military control
and every radio station but that of the
army was silenced
outside the capitol the miners radios
continued for a few days until they too
were attacked
on july twenty second the union leader
juan le kin
captured in the first assault on cob
went on television to call off further
resistance as useless
garcia mesa who had supervised the
initial rebellion in trinidad
returned to la paz for the swearing-in
of the junta on july 18th
sporadic resistance continued in spite
of more than 500 detentions in the first
24 hours but over the next few days
massive arrests mopped up those who
would not manage to re managed
to reach the security of a format for a
foreign embassy or
go underground in operations reminiscent
of the chilean coup of 1973
detainees were herded into sports stadia
from where selected groups were taken
out and shot
on july 18th with the borders closed and
the country declared a military zone
the coup had in the short term at least
been a success
for the citizens things looked less
encouraging
it became clear who was helping very
quickly recalled one bolivian
i was watching television and suddenly
found myself watching a string of
argentine soap operas
the shooting was still going on in the
streets unquote one diplomat said
overnight it became the weirdest place
imaginable with creeps with carbines
running around and everybody normal off
the streets
it was as though the mafia had taken
over in downtown washington unquote
i would interject uh that's a lot
farther a lot closer to the truth
perhaps than
he may have guessed at the time
continuing with the account of the in
the nazi legacy
the famous argentine technique of making
people disappear into innocent looking
vehicles was much in evidence
for a while said a young bolivian
student every time you saw an ambulance
you ran like hell
the exact number who disappeared is
unknown but one estimate put the dead by
mid august at five hundred
and the wounded at two thousand
with garcia meza installed as president
our say gomez became minister of the
interior
and ran the country's security machine a
law of national security was introduced
giving him
uh swinging giving him swinging powers
and he set an unmistakable stamp on the
new new regime
when he announced quote all those who
violate the law will have to walk around
with their last will and testament under
their arm
unquote meanwhile the coup had left the
little team in department 2
in privileged positions barbie and the
italians were given command functions in
state security under the new minister of
the interior
barbie himself with the rank of honorary
colonel
in the bolivian army continued to
supervise internal intelligence
alvaro de castro was suddenly seen to be
was suddenly to be seen at the airport
monitoring the arrival and departure of
interesting foreigners
mario mingola became an advisor
department 2 in cycle
and to an advisor to department 2 in
psychological operations
from his room in the sheraton he would
indulge his taste for disguise
his passion being to infiltrate
potential resistance and report on
dissent
paulie i worked directly under barbie
specializing in
in disinformation skipping down
delicate i was assigned the task of
winning back some international support
he was quick to show off his new
credentials on september 2nd he traveled
to buenos aires for the opening of the
fourth congress of the latin american
anti-communist league
accompanied by garcia meza's personal
delegate
there he arranged several meetings at
the hotel plaza between major daboi song
of el salvador and senior bolivians at
which dab we saw
sought and obtained their help in
sending weapons and money to his quote
anti-guerrilla forces
was impressed by the advice he received
from dela cai and his comrades
quote they are professionals said one
salvadorian who went to buenos aires
with him
they can teach the guard the guardian
nacional how to do things
in october dela cai was given an
audience of 50 in advance of fifty
thousand dollars with which he traveled
to lausanne in switzerland to set up the
europe bolivia association
followed later by branches in paris rome
and madrid
back in bolivia the death squads were in
operation
and there was a more or less permanent
curfew in la paz
barbie de la paliyai de castro and the
rest of their associates carried special
credentials from the minister ministry
of the interior
which permitted them to operate after
the curfew hours
if an overzealous bolivian patrol made a
mistake they quickly paid for it
jose fajardo remembered one such
incident when paulie's brother-in-law
was arrested by a bolivian patrol
after curfew hours he instructed the
patrol to drive to the house of the
argentine military attache where
palliative
himself came out with a pistol in both
hands and argentine behind him with a
submachine gun
stinking indians bolivian scum he
screamed at them in the authentic tones
of the fascist
how dare you arrest my brother-in-law
the bolivians melted away
but there was more than just privileges
to enjoy there was big money
as the international repression
continued as the internal repression
continued the conspirators moved swiftly
to profit from their victory and to
bleed the drug business
quote for the first time in history one
u.s official remarked
the cocaine trade has bought itself a
government
the principle under which garcia meza
intended to operate was laid down at a
meeting in the ministry of the interior
towards the end of nineteen eighty
klaus barbie some summoned joaquin
fieble corn and two of the fiancees of
death coolman and copeland
to attend the minister he told them had
something important to discuss
artse gomez handed feeble corn a list of
140 of the smaller santa cruz dealers
who were to be quote
suppressed none of the five big drug
barons
including roberto suarez was on the list
quote the generals were no longer
satisfied with a percentage of the trade
said one of the fiancees later quote
they wanted to control the business
the government wanted to begin a
clear-out of the small and medium-sized
pasta dealers so that they could
concentrate on the big ones
afterward this uh using the government
uh alleged narcotics uh enforcement
the the elements of the government
supposedly to control the narcotics
trade was in fact used to eliminate the
competition
here for the bigger people and that of
course is very reminiscent of the
uh great heroine who has postulated by
henry kruger continuing
once again barbie was in control of the
squad handing down instructions to
feeble corn
and reporting back on the activities of
the fiancees to arse gomez
increasingly as the group became more
arrogant he found himself relaying
horror stories about their excesses
a monster had been created which would
be hard to tame again but
gomez was untroubled the monster was
making him a great deal of money
licenses to transport the coca leaf
available only from the ministry of the
interior
cost fifteen hundred dollars for a plane
to take off unmolested by the
authorities could cost thirty thousand
dollars
and of course there were direct profits
to be gleaned from that section of the
traffic which arsene gomez and garcia
mehta controlled directly
there was more than enough for everybody
as a member of the gang remembered
the garcia-masa regime put us into the
money we transferred our general
barracks to a building near the airport
surrounded by trees and a two meter
cement wall
on the terrace we installed two machine
guns
the generals in the government had
decided to take the drug traffic into
their own hands
going around the dealers and
intermediaries it was a big affair
two thousand million dollars worth in
november playing out his public role
artsy gomez announced publicly that drug
trafficking in bolivia would be
punishable by the death penalty under a
forthcoming
internal security law more secretly in
the course of another meeting in la paz
garcia mesa told the fiance leadership
quote we have to operate in a convincing
manner unquote
the key to garcia mates's plan lay in a
secret report headed plan
01-f-r-g-e
an unassuming plain white document
prepared for him by quote special
intelligence group number two of the
army
it is clear from the criticisms it
contains of department 2
that this remarkable document was
prepared by a rival section within artse
gomez's organization
but some of its warnings about the
excesses of the fiancees echo precisely
what barbie had already begun to pass on
to the minister
the report began fulfilling your
instructions
colonel camacho a senior intelligence
officer put the special intelligence
group in touch with the principal
exporters of cocaine
the great majority of those interviewed
showed great enthusiasm for your
excellent excellencies plan
in order that we might perfect the plan
they facilitated visits for us to
several factories that we might observe
the various processes and gave us
samples of the finished product
the report is a fascinating and detailed
account of the business conducted by the
major traffickers
the favorite and most profitable export
routes the maximum tax that traffickers
would pay in protection money
and the problems the traffickers
currently face
high on the list with the excessive
demands for protection money from
government officials
these should be controlled said the
report for the success of the plan the
exporters consider us
for the quote for the success of the
plan the exporters consider essential to
the suppression of individual and
workshop production
it is necessary to guarantee the
functioning of industrial plants which
have a capacity of 5 000 kilos a month
this was the task assigned to the
fiancees of death
all the cocaine seized was to be handed
over to the ministry of the interior
the rest of the confiscated property
could be counted spoils of war
and as joaquim feeblecorn later
testified in the course of his frankfurt
trial
the man who ensured that the special
police passes were issued
and who ironed out any problems that
arose was klaus barbie
he was also responsible for paying the
fiance which he did every month
using a major luis casio as the
go-between
casio had once worked for the drug
suppression agency but had switched
sides so he was a useful and
knowledgeable intermediary
the leaders of the fiancees returned
from their meeting with garcia meza in
high spirits and through a party in
santa cruz
fieblecorn was splendid in his ss
uniform or called one member of the
group
the women from the women's and mothers
national front gave us flowers
the party ended with shouts of kyle
hitler
so basically we've seen how the
government basically as one uh official
put it
the cocaine trade had bought itself a
government and we're now going to take a
look at the u s government's role in
promoting that coup
and one of the contact points and a
rather interesting one
uh between the us government bolivia was
through the filter of the unification
church of the reverend sun myung moon
strange stuff but then again regular
listeners know that strange stuff is
what to expect
all of the documented this is from an
article in the covert action information
bulletin
uh this is bulletin number 20 25
originally published in i believe late
spring no winter 1986
covert action information bullet number
25 from winter of 86
the article itself the entire article
and i just lost the front pages called
klaus barbie
a killer's career it's by kai hermann
copyright 1984.
and this is in the middle of the article
after talking about the coup itself and
uh
the the cries of kyle hitler's the ritus
took power
the first official well-wisher who
visited the newly
uh inaugurated president garcia was a
surprise
at least for outsiders he was the acting
leader of the mooney's colonel bo
he pack and for those of you not
familiar it's three words
three names a b-o-h-i-p-a-k
the representative of the sects founder
moon announced after his return to the
u.s
quote i have erected a throne for father
moon in the world's highest
city according to the legally recognized
assessment of four clergymen from hessen
a west german state the moon sect is a
quote criminal union that espouses human
psychological terror and proclaims a
fascist system
unquote the moon sect possesses among
other things munition factories in south
korea and television channels in south
america
they regard their founder moon as quote
holy father
and president reagan as the world's
quote political savior
a representative of the moon sect had
come to bolivia at the end of the
nineteen sixties
on the thirteenth floor of the hasmin
building in la paz an asian named
harumiko iwasawa sat with some americans
and no one seemed to know what they were
actually doing there
it was not until 1983 that the bolivian
ministry of the interior
and bolivian journalists determined that
the gentleman from the moon sect
as well as others had invested about
four million dollars into the
preparation of the coup
membership list of the political moon
organization causa
were found at the top of the list were
the names of almost all the leading
military personnel who
at the same time had been honoring the
swastika in barbie's lodge
even junta leader garcia had been
converted to the moonies for a time
barbie was skeptical of the sects
activities but had to accept the moon
people as allies
on may thirty first nineteen eighty one
nine months after the cocaine general's
coup
almost the entire leadership of the moon
sect and their latin american political
organization
causa flew to la paz
before 200 invited guests in the
sheraton hotel's hall of freedom
moon's representative colonel pack and
the bolivian junta leader garcia began
by praying for u.s president reagan
who had been wounded in an assassination
attempt
pact then explained quote god has chosen
the bolivian people in the heart of
south america as the ones to conquer
communism
unquote the moon organization causes
started their political missionary work
throughout the entire throughout the
entire country
fifty thousand of the sects books
according to a bolivian intelligence
agency report
were brought to la paz by an american
air force plane
you read that again the moon
organization causes started their
political missionary work throughout the
entire country
fifty thousand of the sects books
according to a bolivian intelligence
agency report were brought to la paz by
an american air force plane
along with ideological quote
enlightenment the education of an
anti-communist people's army for a quote
armed church began around seven thousand
bolivians took part in the pre-military
training
the israeli embassy supported the
campaign and delivered among other
things instructional films
about the fight against the palestinian
resistance
the leader of the moon group in bolivia
was thomas tom
ward barbie and the pale american ward
who always seemed to be absorbed in
prayer were often seen together
tom ward was also the man who delivered
a payment from the cia in early 1981 to
the argentinian intelligence lieutenant
alfredo mingoya
m-m-i-n-g-o-l-l-a the fifteen hundred
dollar monthly salary for mingoya was
paid in the causa office belonging to
william
selig ward's representative
selig put less stock in pious attitudes
than his boss
he was an electronic specialist with
experience in vietnam
and advised the bolivian intelligence
organization on technical matters
the third man in the cia cadre of the
moonies was paul
perry who had already tried to organize
a quote armed church
in brazil the argentinian agent alfredo
mingoya at first knew little about the
connection between the nazi barbie
and the mooney ward two days after his
recruitment by the cia says mingoya
he met the old german unquote in the
courtyard of the bolivian general staff
mingoya came out of department mingoya
came out of department 7 of the
intelligence agency
barbie came out of department 3.
continuing
barbie greeted his colleagues as mengo
remembered that mingoya remembers it
hello comrade what do i hear are you
working for a new employer
mangoya answered with surprise for what
for who then
barbie nah for mr ward for example
mingoya feared reproach
yes doesn't the organization allow that
barbie laughed
it's okay there has to be cooperation
unquote let me read that again
barbie greeted his colleague as mangoya
remembers it hello comrade
what do i hear are you working for a new
employer
mingoya answered with surprise for what
for who then barbie nah for mr ward for
example
mingoya feared reproach yes doesn't the
organization allow that
barbie laughed it's okay there has to be
cooperation
mingoya says that it was first clear to
him on that day that barbie had become a
top man for the cia
because only top people knew the names
of the other agency employees
the moon man tom ward was klaus barbie's
cia contact
that the moon man tom ward was klaus
barbie's cia contact man only proceeding
and directly after the pooch of 1980
reading that last sentence one more time
because very very short sentence a very
very big meaning
the moon man tom ward was klaus barbie's
cia
contact man only proceeding and directly
after the pooch of 1980.
barbie's steady cia contact person was
the munitions dealer fernando incauste
he boasted that he had direct contact
with president reagan
whom he allegedly knew during the latter
the latter's california governor days
another one of barbie's steady cia
contact people was
jorge portugal also a munitions dealer
he was in cal state's close co-worker
and barbie's business friend
the third man from the secret
intelligence area with whom barbie
worked was ludwig alves pacheco
the first name ludwig represents his
german ancestry
something which alves pacheco boasts
about the bolivian is also proud of his
real german passport
he received the passport he says for
special services rendered to west
germany
with regard to the quality of barbie's
activities as an agent for the american
and west german information
information agencies even those bolivian
government members who ought to know it
best
speak about it only hesitantly the
defense minister of the pro-western
government in bolivia at the time
manuel cardenas motto in an official
interview
cautiously answered our questions
regarding information about barbie's
work for foreign agencies
cardenas quote we have no documentation
about it
they let those disappear unquote before
president siles took over the government
but that barbie worked for foreign
intelligence agencies is believable
many people knew that and there are many
people who can confirm that unquote
was barbie merely an informant or did he
working for foreign agencies
influenced the political development
cardenas
many people who work with barbie are
still in service here
you must understand it is dangerous if
they find out that foreigners had so
much influence here
that they did not just play an advisory
role but that they actually made
decisions unquote do you mean to say
that the usa
staged the 1980 coup cardenas hesitates
then answers quote
let me say it like this and then you can
quote me
if there isn't a coup happening today it
is only
because the americans are not interested
in in a coup
so the uh let me know i actually have my
mystery that license if there isn't a
coup happening today
it is only because of one reason because
it is the first time that the americans
are not interested in a coup
unquote so recapping very briefly
because we have some more information to
go into
the fiancees of death acting at the
behest of
major cocaine traffickers and in cahoots
with the government
acting also with the us government and
clinton the
klaus barbie the head of this
organization who had previously worked
for the u.s counterintelligence corps as
well as the galen organization
sets up this brutal coup in 1980 after
the coup
the government basically takes over the
cocaine trade garcia mates and artsy
gomez cornering most of the proceeds
with the strong arm help of klaus barbie
working
for the central intelligence agency and
apparently according to the people on
the inside
the united states heavily involved in
setting up
the uh the coup that brought them to
power now
this is an interesting situation again
the use of the fiancee's of death to
eliminate competition for the
government-allied cocaine traffickers
very reminiscent of henrik kruger's
scenario in
the great heroin coup and again bear in
mind the
triad of u.s intelligence international
fascism and the drug trade that's the
focus
of the broadcast this evening now for in
the conclusion portion
the concluding portion of my mouth's
getting kind of tired too
uh in the concluding portion of the
broadcast tonight we're going to take a
look at some things sort of bringing
some of this information up to date
the la although the contra operation in
nicaragua has gotten the largest amount
of publicity
the largest u.s covert operation is in
afghanistan the united states is
supplying hundreds of millions of
dollars every year to the afghan rebels
and apparently the drug trade opium on
hashish in particular
is heavily involved in the financing of
the arms for the afghan rebels
and a lot of that is winding up in the
united states from the so-called golden
crescent area of iran
afghanistan and pakistan and we're going
to take a look
at the postscript of henrik kruger's
great heroin coup
where in 1980 he was able to pin
down and pinpoint some of the key
narcotics trafficking elements
for the uh of the afghan rebels
all right reading again from the great
heroin coup by heinrich krueger
one needn't be an apologist mr kruger
writes
for russia's involvement in afghanistan
to see history repeat itself
in cia support for the side financing
its operations with opium
by the time the agency admitted
supplying arms to afghanistani insurgent
groups
it had long been known that the same
group supported themselves via the drug
traffic
as reported a year earlier quote feudal
landlords whose buildings are threatened
with confiscation by the taraki
government
are bringing the produce from their
poppy crops into pakistan
and use the proceeds to buy rifles
explosives and other weapons
pakistani arms merchants report that
their new customers come in daily
and business is booming
guns for drugs kruger writes the same
scenario as in laos burma and latin
america
in a new york times portrait
afghanistani rebel leader syed ahmed
gailani was described as an aristocrat
tied to former king zahir shah
and the owner of a peugeot dealership in
kabul
his ancestral holdings confiscated he
was now underwritten by saudis
kailani's followers reports counter spy
magazine are for the most part
and tribesmen traditional harvesters of
oprah opium
not long after the major dislocations
began tribal areas of pakistan
and afghanistan were replacing southeast
asia's golden triangle
as the major source of heroin in western
europe and beginning to ship heroin to
the united states
this was reported prior to the russian
invasion by
by dea director peter bensinger let me
read that part again
not long after the major dislocations
began tribal areas of
pakistan and afghanistan were replacing
southeast asia's golden triangle
as the major source of heroin in western
europe and beginning
to ship heroin to the united states this
is reported prior to the russian
invasion
by dea director peter benzinger he added
that the afghanistani police
were vigorously combating the narcotics
traffic
afghanistan's 1979 opium harvest was 20
times mexico's
thanks to their russian advisors and the
decrease in corruption
now the involvement of the afghan rebels
with the narcotics traffic and bear in
mind that they are the recipients of the
largest u.s
covert aid now being provided by the
intelligence apparatus
that information can be updated from a
number of different sources we're going
to take a look at one right now
reading now from the new york times of
wednesday june 18
1986. this is an article entitled afghan
rebels victory garden
opium it's by arthur bonner its dateline
musa kala afghanistan
fields of purple red and white poppy
flowers contrasting brilliantly with the
dull gray of the surrounding deserts
stretched toward the horizon in one
field where the petals had fallen to the
ground
a line of farmers scraped a brownish
black gum from pale green pods about the
size of golf balls
they were harvesting opium that
according to dozens of afghan rebel
commanders and fighters
helps finance their war against troops
of the soviet and afghan armies
the rebels encountered here and
elsewhere on a thousand mile journey
through three southern afghan provinces
admitted they are involved in poppy
cultivation the war the rebels said
created its own economic and moral
imperatives
they said the opium harvest was crucial
to their survival and their continued
efforts
to oust the communists skipping down on
the article
in the shade of an ancient tree to the
side of a field where the farmers worked
in musa kala
an islamic teacher explained the
importance of opium to the rebels
how else can we get money said the
teacher an elderly man named muhammad
muhammad razul
with a thick gray and black beard and
large watery eyes
his brother nazim akunzada is regarded
by other rebels as the most powerful
commander in helmand province
they said the family has large land
holdings that include extensive poppy
fields quote
we must grow and sell opium to fight our
holy war against the russian
non-believers mr razul said
comments like this were heard from
dozens of rebels during the journey
islam does not forbid the harvest mr
rasool asserted
islamic law bans the taking of opium but
there is no prohibition against growing
it he said
the month-long journey with a west
german medical team included scenes like
this one in poppy fields in every
village in town
all the areas were controlled by afghan
rebel commanders and their followers
international anti-narcotics officials
in pakistan say they believe that
afghanistan
is the largest single source of illicit
opium
american officials estimate that the
afghan crop this year will be 800 metric
tons
a state department report to congress in
february described afghanistan and the
bordering tribal areas of afghanistan as
quote
the world's leading source of illicit
heroin exports to the united states and
europe
taking that again a state department
report to congress in february described
afghanistan on the bordering tribal
areas of pakistan as quote
the world's leading source of illicit
heroin exports to the united states and
europe
ali ahmad a rebel commander in his
mid-20s was interviewed amid the ruins
of the town of sangeen about 60 miles
northwest of kandahar
he and his father are the military
rulers of the area with more than a
thousand afghan rebels under their
control
their family also has extensive farmland
green poppy pods danced in a light
breeze in a field adjacent to his house
as mr ahmad discussed the crop with the
eagerness of someone
who has recently found a way to repair
the fortunes of his family farm
referring to the rebels increasing
involvement in opium harvesting to
finance their war effort he said quote
everyone is taking it up unquote
again bearing in mind the scenario that
we looked at in radio free america
number 24 where the mayo tribesmen or
among tribesmen and laos
were growing opium the harvest was then
flown into
south vietnam in partnership with the
south vietnamese government by the ca
at cia it wound up in the arms of our
gis
indeed and uh the beat goes on we will
read an article from monday june 2nd
1986's san francisco chronicle
uh about some rather interesting
packages that have been showing up
right here in the bay area just to give
you the local angle the article is
headline bay area getting afghan
hashish with a rebel label articles by
paul liberator
hashish from afghanistan is arriving in
the bay area stamped with a political
slogan supporting the afghan gorillas in
their war against the soviet union
one pound bars of hashish being sold
here bear a round
gold stamp that says quote smoke russia
away
the insignia has a drawing of a
semi-automatic rifle in the center and
afghanistan written on the bottom
an agent of the u.s drug enforcement
administration in washington confirmed
that quote individual
unquote rebel fighters are producing an
exporting hashish to the united states
and other countries
apparently to help finance their war
effort
quote the best of our knowledge shows
that there are individual guerrillas
doing it
but not the guerrilla organizations
themselves unquote he said
the dea agent said it is difficult to
tell the difference between drug dealers
and rebels in afghanistan
and they often may be one in the same
quote
part of the year they are fighters and
part of the year they are farmers
he said they don't see it quote
producing and selling drugs meaning
as doing something wrong after they
sell it it's someone else's problem
skipping down in the article
afghanistan is part of the so-called
golden crescent that also
includes iran and pakistan the region
produces more than half of the world's
illegal opium
afghanistan is also major producer of
hashish
a concentrated marijuana product
afghan rebel leaders say they are
opposed to drugs and alcohol
because the quran does not approve of
them they contend that their soldiers do
not use drugs themselves because it
would violate islamic teachings and hurt
them militarily
in their seven-year-old battle against
the russians rebel sources admit however
that heavily armed drug smugglers travel
freely over the same trails that they
use
loads of drugs are moved from
afghanistan through pakistan to karachi
where they are shipped out with
legitimate cargo
afghan drug dealers do not mind selling
to americans and quote they are happy to
sell to the russians
the dea agent said there have been
reports that soviet soldiers in
afghanistan use drugs extensively
selling guns ammunition and other goods
to
to buy hashish and heroin the stamp may
be mysterious but there is little doubt
the drug smuggling is helping the rebel
cause in afghanistan quote every puff
you take
is another bit of shrapnel up some
ivan's backside
unquote one source said well of course
what's entertaining here in a kind of a
sick way is the uh
is the dea's uh attempt to maintain that
that it's the individual uh
rebels that uh occasionally might happen
to uh in fact
uh ship a a little bit of drugs here and
there back and forth
when as we've been uh examining in
almost nauseating detail for the past
four or five months
this has been going on forever as a
matter of fact the united states seems
unable to find covert military allies to
support who don't seem to be involved in
the drug trade
rather than it being a couple of lone
wolf drug dealers who just happen to use
the same
trails as the uh as the mujahideen
now i've as we mentioned uh in may we're
going to be doing three four-hour
programs radio free america programs
about the iran-contra scandal
the team that it did in an article i'm
about to read you which is referred to
as the secret team
has been is not only heavily involved in
cocaine smuggling in order to
finance the contra operation but has
been involved in a big big way
with many of the us intelligence
narcotics operations over the years
reading now from the san francisco bay
we're going to go into this by the way
in much more detail in our three-part
series in may
reading from the san francisco examiner
of monday december 29th of 1986.
this is an article by vince bielski
b-i-e-l-s-k-i headlined
secret team linked with iran's scandal
sub-headed suit traces north's unit to
cia activities in 60s
a secret team on quote of former cia and
military officials and arms dealers
was involved in the covert weapons
shipments to iran and the nicaraguan
contra rebels under the direction of
fired white house aid colonel
lieutenant lieutenant colonel oliver
north according to an affidavit filed in
a miami lawsuit
roots of the team date to the secret u.s
war against cuba in 1961
and its members have since been involved
in political assassination programs in
laos
vietnam chile and now nicaragua the
affidavit says
the team has also been involved in opium
and cocaine trafficking to fund their
operations as the affidavit filed
december 15th in a miami federal court
in support of a lawsuit brought by dan
sheehan an attorney with the christic
institute in washington dc
the suit names 29 alleged operatives in
the arms network as defendants and
alleges that they made that they
supplied the explosive used in the may
1984 assassination bid
against contra leader aiden pastore in
nicaragua in which eight people were
killed
and pastora was wounded the plaintiffs
martha honey and tony abraham
are u.s journalists who are seeking
damages for injuries they suffered in
that bombing
the affidavit is based on information
from 79 sources she and says
the defendants who make up the secret
team include former high-ranking cia
officials theodore shackley and thomas
kleins
retired major general richard secord
former cia agent raphael quintero
and arms dealer albert hakeem of los
gatos
in the affidavit sheehan says he learned
of the clandestine group from a former
u.s intelligence officer who worked in
iran
a retired cia officer and a former air
force
air force officer the intelligence
officer discussed quote
the existence of a secret team of former
high-ranking american cia officials
former high-ranking u.s military
officials and middle eastern arms
merchants
who also specialized in the performance
of covert political assassinations of
communists
and which carried on its own independent
american foreign policy regardless of
the will of congress the president
or the cia the affidavit says
the source said the team had been set up
in the 70s under the supervision of
shaklee and klein's
who were then with the cia they joined
with secord and hakeem and
went private unquote the affidavit says
after leaving the agency in 1982
before i continue with the article bear
in mind the statement the
information presented in henrikh
kruger's the great heroin coup about
these quote
former operatives skipping down on the
article
shackley had klein's work together at
the cia as early as 1961
after the cia-backed bay of pigs
invasion of cuba the affidavit says
shaklee the cia station chief in miami
and klein's his deputy
directed operation mongoose a covert
operation of guerrilla raids into cuba
in 1961-3 the affidavit says
exiles involved in the secret war
against cuba have reportedly resurfaced
to play a role in the contra arms
network including quintero
felix rodriguez and luis posada corrido
rodriguez and posada allegedly operated
operate from ilopango elbe
air base in el salvador where arms for
the contras are apparently stored and
shipped to the contrast
in 1963 several cia operatives under
shaklee's direction were quote
caught smuggling narcotics into the u.s
from cuba the affidavit reads
two years later the operation was shut
down and shackley and kleins were
transferred to laos where shaklee was
made cia deputy chief of station
and klein's continued as his deputy the
lawsuit alleges
according to the affidavit in 1966
through 71
shackley and kleins directed the special
operations group
which trained and used mayo tribesmen
quote
to secretly assassinate over a hundred
thousand non-combatant village mayors
bookkeepers clerks and other civilian
bureaucrats in laos cambodia and
thailand
unquote that operation
was funded by profits from an illegal
opium trade run by layoutian a laotian
named vang
pao this lawsuit alleges interrupting we
went into that in great detail
in information from alfred mccoy's the
politics of heroin in southeast asia in
radio free america number 24.
continuing in 1966 and 6 through 68 the
affidavit says
the commander of the special operations
group was now retired army general john
singlaub
who has said publicly that he is helping
arm the contras according to the
affidavit
one of singlabs deputies at the time the
lawsuit says
was then major was then marine corps
major oliver north
also involved with shaklee and klein's
in the assassination program in laos was
secord
then a deputy air wing commander with
the air force the affidavit says
in 1971 shaklee and kleins were
transferred to the united states
where shaklee became chief of the cia's
operation in the western hemisphere
and klons continued as his deputy from
their new post
they directed the track 2 operation in
chile
which played a role in the assassination
of chilean president salvador allende
and the overthrow of the elected chilean
government in 1973 the affidavit reads
in 1974 the two were transferred to
vietnam where shaklee joined the cia
station
and kleins was once again his deputy in
1974 and 75 they directed a project that
quote
carried out the political assassination
in vietnam of some sixty thousand
village mayors treasurers school
teachers and other non-viet cong
administrators
in an attempt to [ __ ] vietnam's
political institutions
the affidavit says the two funded that
operation with pow
opium money according to the affidavit
because shaklee and klein's quote
knew that their secret anti-communist
extermination program was going to be
shut down in vietnam laos cambodia and
thailand in the very near future
they in 1973 began their own private
anti-communist assassination and
unconventional warfare program
to operate after the end of the vietnam
campaign the affidavit reads
this was the beginning of the secret
team which five years later in the
spring of 1978
would approach nicaraguan dictator
anastasio samosa with a plan
with a plan quote the objective of which
was to carry out the political
assassination of the top leadership of
the sonnenista revolutionary movement
the affidavit says
by august of 1979 the secret team was
supplying the ousted dictator with
military weapons for the newly formed
contra forces
the affidavit says niptoc is now going
to read you an article about a
specific member of this contra supply
team who
links directly with the karoo bosh
operations that we read about from the
great heroin coup
indeed and this article is from the san
jose mercury news
for thursday october 16th in 1986
the headline contra figure linked to jet
bombing
it's by tim golden knight ritter news
service dateline managua
sandinista security officials said
wednesday that a cuban
exile san anisa security officials said
wednesday that a cuban exile who
allegedly helped run an el
salvador-based contra supply
operation is an escapee from a
venezuelan jail
where he was being held for the 1976
bombing of a cuban jetliner
deputy interior minister luis carrion
said sandinista officials are convinced
that ramon medina
identified by a captured u.s pilot as
the number two figure in the country
supply operation
is in fact luis posada carrilles
excuse me one of four suspects including
orlando bosch
charged in the cuban air cubana airliner
bombing that claimed 73
lives posada carriles escaped from
prison last
year carrion said at a news conference
wednesday in managua
that eugene hasenfuss the american
captured two weeks ago
had identified posada from photographs
shown him by interrogators
he also cited other unidentified
scientist intelligence sources he said
indicated that medina and posada were
the same person
quote we are certain that it's him
karion said
skipping down in the article posada
carrilles was arrested in venezuela a
few weeks after a bomb
exploded in the kubana airlines dc-8
shortly after it took off from barbados
on october 6 1976 heading for havana
a naturalized venezuelan posada had
worked for venezuelan military
intelligence
venezuelan authorities accused posada
and bosch
a cuban exile whose case had become a
caused celeb
in some exile circles as quote the
intellectual authors of the bombing
posada carriles escaped august 18th 1985
from a national penitentiary in san juan
del moros
60 miles southwest of caracas venezuela
venezuela's justice minister told
reporters after the escape that posada
had bribed a prison guard supervisor
venezuelan press accounts put the payoff
as high as 25 000
a some financed according to unconfirmed
venezuelan reports
by an anti-castro group posada's
presence in central america had been
announced over miami radio stations late
last year
tomas regalado general new general news
editor at wqba radio station said
posada's associates distributed a taped
message
from posada to wqba and other spanish
language stations in which he said he
had escaped from jail
because he expected no justice in
venezuela
posada also said he was quote fighting
communism
in central america again as dave pointed
out
a direct connection between the contras
and the orlando bosch operation kuru the
jm wave station of miami etc
further proof if any was really needed
at this point that basically the whole
contra operation is merely an
outcropping of
of the bay of pigs operation it's just
bay of pigs part
six or something like that whatever the
number would be by now the heavy
involvement as indicated in the article
i read before the one nip just read
of this same team theodore shaklee the
head of jm wave
uh where he report came directly from
berlin and uh this this whole team
involved which obviously weaves in a
very direct way throughout the entire
radio free america series we've been
doing and of course
the heavy intersections between this
team and the triple wilson team we're
going to be going into that and other
things
in the three-part series in may one of
the uh
us intelligence operations heavily
involved in the narcotics and arms
traffic that we detailed
in radio free america number 25 was the
new gun hand bank
an article linking the secret team
involved in the iran contra scandal with
the new gun hand bank
appeared in the san francisco chronicle
of monday march 9
1987. this is a chronicle wire service
story and
entitled aussie connection to north
probed
several former military and intelligence
officers who helped made marine
lieutenant colonel oliver north ship
weapons to iran and central america
were closely associated with the
co-founder of an australian financial
concern that collapsed in 1980
among those linked to the failed
sydney-based concern negan hand bank
and its co-founder michael j hand was
richard secord
a retired air force major general who
helped north conduct airlifts of weapons
to the middle east and central america
according to the four-year-old
australian investigation
the australian study parts of which is
still secret
was completed in 1983 by the
commonwealth new south wales joint task
force on drug trafficking
the study is receiving scrutiny again in
washington because of the details it
contains about activities
and movement of weapons around the world
by many of the figures involved
in the iran-contra affair the australian
report
also concluded that several former cia
officials and contract operatives
among them theodore g shackley thomas g
kleins and rafael quintero were involved
in military and intelligence-related
activities with hand
and other top officers of the new gun
hand concern
the tower commission report on the iran
contra affair and other published
reports have linked all of these men to
operations in the middle east and
central america directed by north
the national security council aide
dismissed in november by president
reagan
secord and the other men in the network
are the focus of an investigation by the
senate foreign relations committee
the australian study at congressional
aides said provides additional evidence
that will help the committee determine
whether this group
simultaneously functioned over the years
as official government intelligence
agents
while also conducting illegal illegal
and illegal operations for profit
the australian study does not
demonstrate that c chord shackley climbs
or quintero smuggled weapons or
narcotics
it does say however that these men were
close to hand a former army green beret
and military intelligence officer who
served in laos during the late 1960s
with a cia-owned airline named
air america well like if the australian
study doesn't name it just about
everything else that we've dealt with in
this series does the point being again
that the
team involved in the iran contra scandal
goes clear back to the entire milieu
of the u.s and the u.s national security
establishment's
heavy heavy involvement with drug
smuggling that we have detailed
in this and the other three previous
radio free america programs about
the cia and the national security
establishment's drug trafficking
operations
the next broadcast radio free america
number 28
will deal with the lsd trade the
psychedelic subculture of the 1960s
and the heavy massive involvement of our
national security establishment
in bringing that about and we will
document that next month
then we're going to be in a sense
extending this discussion in may with
three four-hour programs about iran
conjugate
and with that yes with that we're going
to wrap it up but what we are going to
do very quickly before we go is we're
going to give you a couple of bits of
information
first off uh sources on a lot of the
books again we mentioned
we read extensively from the great
heroin coup
if you cannot find that in your local
used bookstore or in your library you
might contact
uh tom davis books a service that we
mentioned quite frequently because tom
davis has an extensive uh
selection of these types of books played
and we ever found another service
that that had what tom davis has we
would tell them to there's no connection
between
tom davis's company and ourselves except
that we found a lot of useful books
there
you can get a hold of a catalog if you
write to tom davis books at p.o box
1107 aptos california
95001-1107 i'll give that one more time
tom davis books
po box 1107
aptos california 95001-1107
okay and as mentioned nobody here gets
anything out of this one so that's uh
you're on your own but uh he does
he's and he is an excellent source for
these kinds of books now if you cannot
locate a source of the good the
the great heroine to it for some reason
tom davis is sold out or if you can't
find it about because it is in other
places
libraries of course is a very good place
to check uh
the radio free america shows all 27 all
26 to date plus number 27 which will be
going down there this week
are available from a tape duplication
service as are our guns of november
shows and a lot of different one step
beyond shows on permanent file down at
this tape service
the name of this tape duplication
service is davcore
d-a-v-k-o-r-e they're located at suite
d as in davcore space parkway
three words just like it sounds that's
in mountain view california
zip code nine four zero four three
the phone number is area code four one
five nine
six nine three zero three zero right or
phone to the attention of paul once
again
davcore d-a-v-k-o-r-e
located at suite 1300 d space parkway
mountain view california 9404
phone number area code 415-969-3030
write or phone to the attention of paul
and again neither nip nor myself nor the
station
makes any money off of this we have no
financial connection with the
organization in fact
i just got done paying a very large bill
this past week for some copies they made
for me
all right and with that we are going to
prepare to roll on out the door we're
going to
play a song for you that you might find
entertaining as we go
uh we do want to mention that unlike uh
tonight which was an odd
sunday night for us since it was a radio
free america next sunday will be the
usual one step beyond show from 8 to 11
o'clock
and uh probably with time for phone
calls and all of those things that make
one step beyond shows
different from radio free america shows
i don't know if they make them easier
but they make them different so don't go
away and stick around there will be
music on
uh till two o'clock but first we're
going to play a little song that uh
came from an open mic show here up at
the radio station and then we're going
to bid you good night so for dave emery
and myself nip tuck thank you for
joining us and thank you for listening
to radio free america here on
kfjc this song got us thrown out of the
keystone chain
and uh i don't know why we're playing
with jim carroll and he can talk about
all his friends that died
but i can't talk about this subject it's
nearly dear to my heart
because of jerry
well i'm a i'm a coke nazi
goose stepping down my plate
[Music]
well i'm a i'm a coke nazi
my nose is plastic so is my brain
i've lost 50 pounds and that's no
lie i'm doing three grams a day
or as much as i can buy i owe everybody
money
but i can always hide cause i'm
i'm a coke nutty can you relate
look at those people staring at each
other out there
[Music]
it's always short and when i wrap it
i always take a smart rhythm
[Music]
no time to sing i need a line
i lick the razor
[Music]
[Applause]
oh look at them laughing at each other
[Music]
can you relate thank you very much
jerry and vice heart attack radio free